I never really thought much about the
locks on grandpa's door. They'd been
there as long as I could remember. Brass
brackets fitted neatly into the door
frame. Old polished skeleton keys
resting on a small dish by dad's spot at
the dinner table. To me, it was just
part of our house, like the faded
wallpaper in the hallway, or the humming
radiator that never quite stopped
rattling in winter.
Every evening after dinner, Grandpa
would fold his napkin carefully, place
it beside his plate, and stand with a
soft sigh. He always thanked mom for the
meal, patted dad's shoulder as he
passed, then paused at my chair to give
a gentle nod and a small smile. His eyes
crinkled at the corners when he smiled,
and for a moment, he looked younger than
his thin spotted hand suggested.
Then he'd shuffle down the short hallway
to his room, slippers scuffing the
hardwood with a rhythm I could hear even
over the ticking kitchen clock.
Dad would stand and follow him, keys
jingling in his palm. Once Grandpa
stepped inside, Dad would close the door
and turn the lock twice until it clicked
solid. Sometimes he'd test the handle
after, giving it a quick shake to make
sure it held firm.
Then he'd sigh, took the keys back into
his pocket, and we carry on cleaning up
the plates and wiping down the counters.
No one talked about it. I never thought
to ask why grandpa's door needed a lock
from the outside, and they never offered
an explanation.
As a kid, I assumed it was a safety
thing, like those plastic outlet covers
or cabinet locks to keep toddlers away
from bleach bottles.
Grandpa was frail after all. He'd been
old for as long as I'd been alive. In
the mornings, he sat by the sliding door
with his library books, reading with
thick glasses perched halfway down his
nose, one hand stroking the cat curled
in his lap. In the afternoons, he walked
slow laps around the little garden beds,
pulling up weeds or patting tomato cages
to check their stability.
At school, my friends asked why grandpa
didn't live in a care home. I shrugged
and said he didn't need one. When they
pushed further, asking about the locks,
heat rose in my cheeks. I laughed off,
mumbling that it was just a family
thing.
Eventually, they stopped asking.
For me, it was normal. Grandpa had
dinner with us. Grandpa went to bed. Dad
locked his door. The world stayed simple
because I never gave myself a reason to
question it.
Dinner was chicken stew that night,
thick with potatoes and onions. Grandpa
always ate slow, taking tiny spoonfuls
and chewing each bite carefully. He
barely touched his roll, tearing it into
small pieces and piling them neatly on
the rim of his plate.
Halfway through the meal, he paused and
pressed a napkin to his mouth. His
shoulders shook with a quiet cough,
deeper than his usual shallow clearing
of the throat.
When he pulled the napkin away, I saw
the dark red stain blooming across the
folded cotton.
It wasn't much, just a faint splash, but
it sat heavy in my chest.
He frowned down at it for a moment, then
folded the napkin over again, so only
clean white showed.
Mom and dad both saw it. I watched them
exchange a glance across the table, a
silent conversation passing between them
in the tightening of their eyes and the
set of their jaws.
Neither said a word. Dad reached for the
salt shaker. Mom asked if anyone wanted
more bread.
I kept eating, though my stomach felt
tight and hollow.
Grandpa's hands trembled faintly as he
lifted his spoon. He still smiled at me
when her eyes met, the corners of his
mouth pulling up in that familiar, tired
way.
For a moment,
I wondered if he was scared, if he ever
worried about getting old, or if he'd
lived so long that death just felt like
another room he'd eventually walk into.
After dinner, he stood carefully, and
pushed his chair back under the table.
He thanked mom for the stew, patted
dad's shoulder, and gave me his usual
small nod.
There was an extra pause before he
turned away. a flicker or something
clouding his gaze.
Then he shuffled down the hallway to his
room.
Dad followed, keys jingling quietly in
his pocket.
I sat there staring at my half empty
bowl, listening for the click of the
lock. It echoed faintly through the
house, followed by dad's slow footsteps
returning to the kitchen.
He started running the tap, rinsing
dishes as if nothing had happened.
That night, lying in bed, I couldn't
sleep. The sound of Grandpa's cough kept
looping in my head. I'd always thought
of him as old but unbreakable, like a
statue weathered smooth by decades of
rain.
Now he seemed small, frail in a way that
scared me.
What if he needed help in the middle of
the night? What if he fell or couldn't
breathe? The idea of him locked alone
behind that heavy door made my chest
ache.
For the first time in my life, I
realized I didn't actually know why we
locked him in. I never cared enough to
ask, but if something happened to him in
there and I did nothing, I wasn't sure I
could live with that.
I lay awake long after the house went
quiet. The glow from my phone screen
faded as the battery died, leaving me in
the faint orange wash of the street
light filtering through the blinds.
I stared at the ceiling, listening to
the ticking of my alarm clock and the
gentle creeks of wood settling into the
cool air.
My chest felt tight with worry, every
shallow breath scraping against it.
I swung my legs over the edge of the bed
and stood. The carpet cool against my
feet.
The hallway felt colder than my room.
Shadows laying thick pools along the
skirting boards and the faint hum of the
fridge drifted down from the kitchen.
I walked slowly, placing each foot with
care so the floorboards wouldn't
complain under my weight.
Grandpa's door sat at the end, painted
the same pale yellow as the rest of the
walls. The heavy brass locks shining
dully in the low light.
I pressed my ear against the wood.
For a moment, there was nothing but
silence and my own heart beating fast in
my chest.
Then I heard it, a soft humming, quiet
and tuneless. His voice sounded thin,
wavering at the ends of each note, but
steady enough to recognize as his.
After a while, the humming faded into
whispers.
I couldn't make out the words, only the
cadence of speech rising and falling in
the dark. It almost sounded like a
prayer, though the rhythm felt wrong,
unfamiliar.
My hand drifted to the doororknob. I
wrapped my fingers around the cold metal
and turned it gently.
It rattled under my grip, locked firm.
I held it there for a moment, feeling
the solid resistance between us.
Something heavy settled in my chest. A
quiet certainty that I needed to know
what was behind this door.
I let go and stepped back, pressing my
hand to the wall to steady myself.
Tomorrow, I told myself
I would find the spare key.
The next morning, I waited until mom
left for the grocery store and dad
headed out to mow the lawn. His
footsteps crunched across the gravel
drive and the wear of the mower drifted
faintly through the kitchen window.
My hands trembled as I wiped down the
breakfast plates, trying to keep busy
while my thoughts spun circles in my
chest.
When the mower engine roared to life
outside, I slipped down the hallway to
my parents' room. The door creaked when
I pushed it open, and for a moment, I
froze, listening for any sign dad had
heard, but the steady drone of the mower
continued.
The room smelt faintly of old perfume
and clean linen. Sunlight filtered
through the thin curtains, casting
bright stripes across the carpet.
I moved quickly to dad's dresser and
pulled open the top drawer.
Socks and folded handkerchiefs lay
stacked in neat rows. I ran my fingers
along the back until they hit a thin
wooden panel.
Pressing down gently, I felt it shift
under my touch.
a false bottom.
My heart thudded against my ribs as I
lifted it away.
There, resting in the hollow space, lay
an old brass skeleton key. Its edges
were worn smooth, the teeth darkened
with age.
I held it in my palm, feeling its cold
weight.
The urge to put it back nearly
overwhelmed me. My chest felt tight with
guilt, as if taking it would snap some
invisible thread holding the house
together.
But the memory of grandpa's cough
pressed against my mind. The way his
shoulders shook with the force of it,
the way he smiled at me despite the
blood on his napkin.
I thought about how he always paused in
my chair after dinner to give me that
slight nod as if to say he saw me, even
when no one else did. I thought about
how his hands trembled when he held his
spoon and how his feet dragged a little
more each day as he walked down the
hall.
He was getting weaker, and I couldn't
stand the thought of him trapped behind
that door, sick or scared or in pain
with no one there to help him. Even if
there was some reason he had to be
locked in, he still deserved someone who
cared enough to check on him.
I tucked the key into my pocket, lowered
the false bottom back into place, and
closed the drawer. The mower's hum
continued outside, unbroken.
I stepped into the hallway, the feel of
the key burning cold against my thigh
through the denim.
That evening at dinner, Grandpa barely
touched his food. He sat hunched in his
chair, eyes shadowed and distant.
When mom offered him a second helping,
he shook his head with a tired smile.
The silence of the table felt thick
enough to choke on.
Finally, Grandpa set down his fork and
looked around at each of us, his gaze
settling on me last.
"Thank you," he said softly. "Thank you
for taking care of me all these years."
Mom reached over and placed a hand on
his, squeezing it gently. Dad gave him a
small nod, his mouth tight, eyes fixed
on his plate.
Neither of them spoke. The calm
acceptance made my stomach twist with
confusion and dread.
After dinner, Grandpa stood and excused
himself. Dad followed him down the hall,
keys jingling in his hand.
I sat frozen, listening for the quiet
click of the lock as grandpa's door
closed for the night.
When darkness fell and the house settled
into its nighttime hush, I lay awake.
The brass key lay under my pillow, its
weight dragging at my thoughts. My heart
thed so loud I could feel it pulsing
against the mattress. Worry coiled
tighter with each passing hour.
I couldn't shake the image of Grandpa's
trembling smile and dark, tired eyes.
I told myself I was doing this for him
because he deserved more than to be left
alone behind a locked door he couldn't
open.
Near midnight, I slid out of bed,
careful to avoid the groaning floorboard
beside the dresser.
The house lay in silent darkness, thick
with a soft hum of appliances and the
occasional tick of cooling pipes.
I held the brass key tight in my fist as
I crept down the hallway, the carpet
rough under my bare feet.
Grandpa's door loomed ahead, pale yellow
in the dim light spilling from the
cracked bedroom door behind me. My pulse
hammered against my ribs, each thud
echoing louder in my ears.
As I slipped the key into the lock, the
metal teeth caught and resisted for a
moment before turning with a soft click.
I paused, breath caught in my throat,
listening for any sound from inside.
Nothing moved beyond the door.
I eased it open just wide enough to slip
through, press my back against the wood
once it closed behind me.
The room smelled of lavender powder and
old mothballs, a dry sweetness undercut
with something damp and metallic that
set my teeth on edge.
Moonlight filtered through the thin
curtains, casting pale silver bars
across the carpet and the edge of
grandpa's bed.
He sat upright, propped against the
headboard, hands folded neatly in his
lap. His chin rested against his chest,
eyes closed.
For a moment, I thought he might be
asleep, but his chest rose and fell in
slow, labored breaths. Each inhale
rattled in his throat before shuddering
out into the quiet room.
"Grandpa," I whispered.
My voice trembled in the stale air,
curling around the shadows, clinging to
the corners of the room.
His eyes opened.
At first, I thought the moonlight was
playing tricks on me. But as his eyes
adjusted, I saw the pale cloudy film
covering his pupils, a faint milky sheen
that caught in the dim light. His gaze
turned toward me, unfocused, but aware.
He didn't blink, his mouth opened
slightly, lips cracking at the corners
as he spoke.
You shouldn't have come in," he rasped.
His voice scraped through the quiet,
thin and shaking with something deeper
than weakness. "I don't have much time
left to keep it down."
A tremor ran through his folded hands.
The room felt smaller with each shallow
breath I took, the air pressing in
against my chest until I couldn't draw
it fully.
Outside the window, the wind rattled.
the warped glass, the sound sharp and
sudden in the thick silence.
I wanted to speak, to ask what he meant,
but no words came out. Only the sound of
his ragged breathing filled the room,
and the faint quiver of moonlight
trembling across the carpet between us.
Grandpa's breathing hitched. His chest
expanded and shallow, ragged gasps that
caught against something deeper inside
him. His folded hands twitched against
his lap before curling into trembling
fists.
Slowly, his head tipped back against the
headboard, eyes rolling until only the
cloudy white showed beneath fluttering
lids.
Then his back arched.
At first, he looked as if he was
stretching to relieve a cramp, but his
spine kept bending, vertebrae pushing
out under his thin cotton shirt until
each bone jutted sharply against the
fabric. His jaw sagged open, trembling
with effort. A quiet pop echoed from his
chin. Another crack deeper in his throat
followed, wet and sharp, and his mouth
dropped wider than it should have been
able to.
The skin at the corner split open in
thin tearing lines, blood welling up
dark and quick.
A wet choking sound poured from his
chest, vibrating through the bed frame
into the stillness of the room.
Then something slid out from between his
parted lips, forcing his mouth open even
wider with a slick sucking noise.
pale flesh pushed forward in twisting
folds, slick with mucus and threaded
with thin blue veins. It uncurled across
his chin and draped down his chest
before lifting into the air, writhing
and pulsing as if searching for
something in the dark.
My body jolted into action before I
could think. I turned and lunged for the
door, reaching for the knob with shaking
hands.
Something slapped wet and heavy around
my ankles. The force pulled my feet from
under me, slamming my knees under the
thin carpet. Pain shot at my thighs as
the fleshy tendrils tightened. Its damp
surface clinging to my bare skin with a
sucking grip. The touch burned cold at
first, then grew hot, searing against my
calves as it began to drag me back
across the room.
Grandpa's head hung limp, mouth gaping
wide as more of the pale veined flesh
poured from his throat, coiling and
pulsing in the moonlight. His eyes
fluted open, tears mixing with blood as
they streamed down his cheeks. The ropes
of flesh vibrated with each ragged
breath he took, making his voice tremble
when he spoke.
"I'm sorry," he whispered.
The words came out wet and garbled
around the mass, forcing his jaw open.
Each syllable gurgled through the slick
mess spilling from his mouth.
I tried to keep it fed quietly. I tried
so hard.
His sob shuddered through the pulsing
tendrils as they dragged me closer to
the bed. The smell of blood and rotting
meat filling my nose with each ragged
breath I drew.
The fleshy tendrils coiled tighter
around my ankles, dragging me inch by
inch across the carpet. My fingernails
tore at the rug's threads, leaving faint
bloody crescent behind.
Grandpa's mouth kept stretching, jaw
trembling under the mass, forcing it
wider. Slick ropes of pale tissue
pulsing and curling through the air.
The door slammed open behind me so hard
it cracked against the wall. Dad charged
into the room, his face pale with
terror, eyes wide and wild. He gripped
an old iron crowbar in both hands, rust
flaking off the shaft where his fingers
tightened around it. Without hesitation,
he swung the bar down into the nearest
coil, wrapping my leg.
The impact made the tendril shudder,
jerking away with a wet, tearing sound
that sprayed my calf with dark mucus.
Grandpa's mouth let out a strangled
groan as the mass recoiled into his
throat for a moment before surging back
out twice as thick. More folds of vain
flesh spilled down his chest and coiled
along the floor, groping blindly across
the carpet.
Dad swung again, this time striking one
of the thicker ropes still wrapped
around my ankles. The force knocked my
leg free, pain searing at my shins where
the bar clipped bone. I gasped and tried
to crawl backward, tears blurring my
vision. The fleshy coils writhed and
twisted toward me again, seeking my bare
skin with wet sucking sounds.
"Get back!" Dad shouted, voice cracking
with panic. He raised the crowbar again,
but paused, eyes starting from me to
Grandpa.
His breath came in short, ragged bursts
as he watched the thing pulsing from
Grandpa's mouth.
For a moment, hope flashed in his eyes,
as if he believed he could still save
him.
Then Grandpa's eyes rolled back, his
chest convulsed, a deep rattle shaking
through his ribs. The tendrils doubled
their frantic movements, whipping and
slapping against the walls and floor.
One struck dad across the cheek, leaving
a smear of blood and mucus down to his
jawline. He stumbled back, chest
heaving, the crowbar trembling in his
grip.
"Dad," I sobbed, reaching out to him.
My voice felt thin and useless in the
chaos.
His gaze flicked to me, eyes brimming
with something worse than fear.
Grief. Finality.
Slowly he raised the crowbar higher,
gripping it until his knuckles bleached
white.
With a strangled cry, he brought it down
hard
onto grandpa's skull.
The sound was wet and sharp, a dull
crack that echoed through the small
room. Grandpa's head snapped sideways
against the headboard, his jaw still
forced wide around the pulsing mass.
Another blow. Another bone crunched
under iron. Blood splattered across the
pillows and wall, mixing with the dark
mucus oozing from his mouth.
The tendrils spased, flailing in wild
arcs before collapsing into limp coils
on the bed.
Dad stepped back, chest heaving, crowbar
dripping with blood and mucus.
Grandpa slumped forward, the thing in
his throat retreating in quivering jerks
until it vanished into his mouth. His
jaw sagged open one last time before
closing with a quiet wet snap.
Mom appeared in the doorway, her
silhouette framed by the dimhole light.
She clutched the heavy ceramic bowl
against her chest, its rim caked with
dark herbs and strips of raw meat
glistening in thick, oily liquid. Her
lips moved in a trembling whisper,
chanting words that sounded rough and
broken in her throat.
She looked from grandpa's body to dad,
then to me, crouched on the floor,
trembling and stre with blood.
Tears welled in her eyes, spilling down
her cheeks as she stepped closer, the
ball shaking in her hands.
Dad lowered the crowbar, staring at the
broken body slumped against the
headboard.
His shoulders sagged with exhaustion and
grief.
Then
he turned to me. His eyes were red,
rimmed with tears, empty of anything
except the hollow of defeat.
Mom fell silent, her chant dying in her
throat.
She set the bowl down at her feet, never
taking her eyes off grandpa.
There was a sadness there, deep and
trembling.
But something about it felt wrong. The
sorrow in a gaze seemed to stretch
beyond the grief for a lost father.
There was a tremor of fear behind the
tears, a knowledge of what came next
that twisted her grief into something
sharper.
Dad knelt beside me and pulled me into
his chest, his arms trembling around my
shoulders. I pressed my face into his
shirt, breathing in sweat and iron and
old earth.
Over his shoulder, mom just stood there
staring at the body on the bed, her
tears dripping into the bowl of blood
and raw meat at her feet.
Evening settled over the kitchen,
brushing the old lace curtains with deep
gold and violet. The sun dipped below
the neighbors rooftops, leaving strips
of fading light across the tile floors.
I sat at the table, fingers curled
around a mug of lukewarm tea I hadn't
touched. The chair to my right sat
empty. Grandpa's cushion flattened where
he used to sit each night with his chip
ceramic bowl of stew, humming under his
breath while he waited for dad to pass
the bread.
Dad sat across from me, elbows resting
on the table, face buried in his hands.
His hair stuck out in damp clumps, still
stred with flexcks of dried blood he
hadn't managed to wash away.
Mom moved around the kitchen in silence,
rinsing dishes no one had used and
wiping down spotless counters again and
again.
Finally, Dad raised his head. His eyes
were rimmed red, sunken with exhaustion.
He tried to smile, but the corners of
his mouth only twitched before sagging
again.
We should have told you," he said
softly. "This wasn't fair to you."
I stared at him, words caught behind the
tightness in my throat. Tears burned at
the corners of my eyes, but didn't fall.
I felt scraped out inside, hollow and
trembling.
your grandfather.
He was host to something. Dad continued,
voice rough. Long before you were born,
before I was born, locking him in at
night was the only way to keep it
contained. It feeds while he sleeps, but
it doesn't spread. That's why we
He paused mid-sentence, frowning at the
clock above the sink. The number glowed
759 in steady green digits.
His shoulders slumped further as he
pushed back from the table, chair
scraping across the faded vinyl floor.
He stood and looked down at his hands,
flexing his fingers as if testing their
strength.
Mom moved to his side, pressing a kiss
to his temple.
She picked up the heavy brass key from
the counter, holding it in both hands as
if it weighed more than its size
allowed.
"I'll bring you breakfast," she
whispered.
Dad didn't reply. He walked down the
hall, footsteps slow and dragging.
Mom followed him, pausing at the kitchen
doorway to look back at me. Her eyes
were glassy with tears that didn't spill
over.
There was a grief there, deep and raw.
But beneath it flickered something
colder, an old acceptance that made my
skin tighten with dread.
She closed Grandpa's door behind him. I
heard the lock turn with a solid final
click.
I sat alone in the kitchen, staring at
the empty chair beside me. The cushion
still held the faint indent of grandpa's
shape. The scent of his lavender powder
lingered on the fabric, blending with
the aroma of old wood and the evening
air.
My chest achd with something I couldn't
name.
Fear, loss, and knowledge that felt
older than my 17 years.
I realized
I didn't need them to explain.
The truth lay quiet in the pit of my
stomach, heavy and certain.
This thing, whatever it is, didn't die
with grandpa.
It passed along, settling itself into
the next willing body, the next family
member.
I wondered how long I had
until it was my turn.
I was finishing up my afternoon shift at
the gas station when the power flickered
once, twice, then died for good.
The store went silent except for the hum
of the old drink fridge winding down,
and outside the entire street had begun
melting into darkness.
For a moment, I stood behind the cash
register, staring at the dead monitors,
thinking about how I'd be leaving this
place for college in 2 weeks, thinking
about how small and heavy it felt to
still be here.
By the time I locked up and stepped into
the fading sunlight, candle light was
already blooming in windows up and down
Main Street.
Tiny flames flickered behind lace
curtains and line porch railings glowing
against the dark like cautious eyes.
That was just what people did here
whenever the power failed.
It didn't matter if it was a 2-minute
brown out or an overnight storm outage.
Candles came out fast.
No one ever explained it to me in words
that made sense. I just grew up knowing
that when the lights went out, you lit a
candle for them. No one really said who
they were. No one wanted to.
I've always gone along with it. Habit
mostly. Maybe a bit of fear, too, if I'm
honest, but nothing deeper than that.
Grandma was the believer. She would hum
under her breath, low and tuneless, as
she lit each wick in the living room.
Her hands would tremble as she moved
from candle to candle, whispering
prayers I never fully understood.
The prayers meant to keep us safe, she
said. "I used to watch her and wonder if
she really believed in what she was
doing or if believing was just easier
than asking questions no one had answers
for.
All I knew was that every window in our
streets would glow by the time the first
hour of the blackout passed.
Every porch would have a candle burning
and every family would stay inside,
quiet, waiting for the power to come
back on.
I joged the short distance home, my
trainers slapping the pavement in the
hush. There was just enough daylight
left to make it home. Without the street
lights, the neighborhood felt swallowed
by the sky, leaving only small islands
of flickering light in the windows.
Every porch had its candle lanterns
burning. Some families set out mason
jars with tea lightss lining their
walkways, flames bending and trembling
in the spring wind.
It was beautiful in a way, if I didn't
think too hard about why we did it.
No one was outside, not even por smokers
or gossiping neighbors leaning on rails.
Windows were curtained tightly. The only
movement came from the restless flames
themselves, stretching shadows across
gardens and driveways.
When I was little, I used to think the
candles made the town look warm and
alive. Grandma would tell me stories
about how her own mother lit them every
blackout, whispering that they kept the
watches calm.
At school, teachers never spoke about
it. My friends and I would joke that the
candles were just a hillbilly blackout
tradition, something to make us feel
special when power companies ignored us.
But I still lit them. We all did. Even
the new families who moved here
eventually fell in line. No one wanted
to be the only house dark during an
outage.
Our house sat at the end of Sycamore
Lane, a sagging one-story with peeling
blue trim. It was smaller than most with
two thin porch posts wrapped in chipped
plastic ivy.
Grand Maro said she liked being at the
edge away from the busier parts of town.
Fewer eyes watching her every move,
she'd whisper with a smile.
Though I never understood what that
meant.
I pushed through the gate and up the
front steps two at a time, the wood
creaking under my weight. My fingers
shook as I thumb the keys from my
pocket.
I wanted to see a silhouette in the
window rocking slowly in a chair, candle
light pooling around a lined face as she
mouthed prayers into the quiet.
That was how it always was. Even when
the power returned, she let the candles
burn down to wax puddles before blowing
them out just to be sure.
Inside, the living room smelled of
lavender wax and melted paraffin. Dozens
of tea lightss flickered along the
window sill and the old bookshelves
crammed with worn cookbooks and yarn
baskets.
But there was no humming to greet me. No
whispered psalms or half-forgotten
lullabibis weaving through the candle
lit shadows.
Grandma was slumped in a rocking chair,
head leaning against the shoulder.
Her eyes were open, staring at nothing.
The glow of the candles lit her face
from below, deepening every wrinkle into
something hollow and waxing. Her chest
rose and fell in shadow, uneven breaths
that rattled in a throat.
"Grandma!"
My voice cracked as I crossed the room,
dropping my bag by the door. I grouched
beside her, gripping her wrist. Her skin
felt cold and damp. She didn't blink.
Her breathing fluttered like a candle
about to go out.
For a long moment, I knelt there,
listening to the ticking of the windup
clock and the bug shelf and the soft
hiss of candle wicks burning low.
Outside, the street was silent, holding
its breath under the blackout sky.
Emergency services never came out during
a blackout. Whether it was due to
tradition or a logistical reason, I
never knew. But what I did know was it
was useless to try.
My chest tightened. I stood and moved to
the candle shelf, pulling down the box
of fresh votes.
If grandma couldn't finish them tonight,
I would. I didn't know what else to do.
All I could think was, "Keep them
burning. Keep her safe. keep whatever
weighted in the dark from thinking our
house was empty.
I moved through the house with a box of
votives balanced against my hip, placing
candles in every room. The kitchen
counters were already lined with wax
stained sauces from past blackouts, each
ready to cradle a flickering flame.
I lit one beside the sink, another on
the breakfast table near Grandma's
halffinish crossword. Her pencil rested
diagonally across the grid, its eraser
worn down to metal.
In the hallway, I set a stubby pillow
candle at top the shoe cabinet, its
orange glow stretching toward the
bedrooms.
Shadows danced across the peeling floral
wallpaper, blooming and shrinking in the
shifting light.
Each flicker made me flinch. I kept
listening for Grandma's voice, hoping
she would call out to me, ask what I was
doing, or tell me I missed a spot. But
the house stayed silent, apart from the
quiet hiss of wigs catching fire.
At the bathroom door, I paused to check
her breathing again.
From the hallway, I could see a chest
rising and falling, slow and uneven,
relieved in the tightness in my throat
for a moment.
I whispered a quick prayer. Word she
used to say when I was scared of
thunder.
Keep her safe. Keep them away. Bring
back the sun.
The last candle sat on the living room
window ledge. I knelt and held the match
to the wick.
For a moment, the flame flared bright,
illuminating the frostbed glass. My
reflection glowed there, skin pale under
the candle's bloom.
I moved to blow out the match, but
something beyond the window caught my
eye.
A figure stood at the edge of the yard
where the candle light faded into
darkness.
She wore her cotton house dress with a
hem that brushed her ankles and her hair
was pinned back neatly from her face.
The woman's shoulders were straight. Her
head tilted slightly to one side.
Even from where I knelt,
I could see her smile.
My heart th so loud I couldn't breathe.
It was grandma.
She raised one hand and curled her
fingers in a gentle beckoning motion,
inviting me out into the darkness beyond
the candles.
My hands fumbled for my phone as I
backed away from the window. Emergency
services were no help, but maybe someone
from the town knew what to do. The
screen lit up blue and empty.
No bars, no emergency signal. I tried
again, pressing the numbers harder as if
force alone could push the call through.
Each failed attempt made my chest
tighten until I felt I couldn't draw a
breath at all.
Come on. Come on.
My voice shook in the quiet room. The
only answer was the low hiss of the
candles burning along the shelf.
I shoved the phone into my pocket and
turned to check on Grandma.
For a moment, I thought she was still
there in a chair. The shadows clung
thick around the cushions, curling into
shapes I almost recognized.
I stepped closer, heart pounding so hard
I could feel it in my teeth.
The chair was empty. The front door
stood open, letting in a chill breeze
that carried the faint scent of damp
earth and blown out matches.
The candles by the entry had been
extinguished, wax pooling around
blackened wicks. The smoke coiled upward
in thin gray ribbons that faded into the
dark.
Grandma, my voice cracked. I rushed to
the doorway and peered outside. The
street stretched silent under the
blackout sky, only lit by the flickering
candles in windows and porches.
I stepped onto the porch boards,
clutching the frame to keep my knees
from buckling. "Grandma!" I shouted
again, louder this time. My voice echoed
off quiet houses, then fell flat.
At the far end of the street, shadows
flickered at the edge of the driveway.
They were tall, thin shapes standing
just beyond the candle light's reach.
They didn't move. They didn't speak, but
I could feel their attention pressing
against my skin, freaking cold and sharp
as sleep.
Lights glowed behind curtain windows. I
saw a neighbor across the street pull
back a lace curtain with two fingers,
her eyes wide and round in the dimness.
Our gazes met. She shook her head once
in a quick, desperate motion before
letting the curtain fall back into
place.
Another window brightened as someone
flicked on a flashlight only to click it
off immediately, leaving candle flames
to flutter alone.
"Please," I whispered, though I didn't
know who I was asking.
I remembered Grandma's old warning, the
one she always made me repeat before bed
during storms when the lights flickered.
Never go outside during a blackout
without a single lit candle. They can't
see you if you carry the light.
My hands were empty. I was standing
barefoot in the dark. Nothing but silent
watches between me and the rest of the
world.
I stepped off the porch, the chill grass
flattening under my bare feet. My eyes
darted across the yard, scanning for any
sign of her. The shadows at the end of
the street still stood silent and
watchful.
I forced myself to look away, focusing
instead on the ground directly before
me.
Halfway to the garden beds, a faint
glimmer caught my eye.
I moved closer, hard thing against my
ribs so hard it hurt.
There, nestled among the dandelion
stalks and damp earth, lay grandma's old
brass candle holder. Its curved handle
rested on a patch of flattened grass.
Wax pulled and solidifying around the
wick. I crouched and touched it with
trembling fingers.
The wax was still warm.
The scent of lavender clung to it, soft
and sweet in the cold air.
Tears prickled in my eyes.
She never let this candle go out, not
once in all my years, living with her,
constantly replacing it when it got low.
She kept it by a chair every night. Even
when there was no blackout, flame
flickering against the dark until dawn
came back.
I clutched the holder to my chest and
stood, wiping my eyes with my sleeve.
The street felt wrong in its silence. My
gaze drifted past the fences and
rooftops toward the treeine at the far
edge of town.
Beyond the open fields, in the dense
clutch of old pines and bareboned oaks,
hundreds of tiny lights flickered
between the trunks. Pin bricks of gold
hovered in the dark, steady and silent.
They weren't fireflies.
The lights didn't bob or bounce. Each
remained fixed at a different height.
Some low to the ground, others near the
canopy, spread among the trees in
careful, unnatural patterns.
My breath caught. I could almost see
shapes holding them. Figures with edges
blurred by shadow, each carrying a pale,
unwavering flame inside them.
They stood in silent rows, face in my
direction, though I couldn't see their
eyes. The sight made my skin tighten
until I felt I might crawl out of it
just to escape the feeling.
I realized then why it never made sense
before.
Growing up, I always thought the candles
were for us. They kept bad things away
and kept our home safe until the power
returned.
That's what everyone said, even if they
never explained how.
But no one ever talked about the woods.
No one ever spoke about what the candles
were keeping lit for.
It was a gap I never noticed because I
didn't want to because the thought that
the lights weren't barriers, but
invitations felt too heavy to hold as a
child. So, I never asked. None of us
did.
A memory rose sharp and sudden.
Grandma's voice low and quivering as she
cleaned and trimmed the old wicks.
They need light to find their way home.
If we don't give it to them, they'll
look for another glow to follow.
I pressed the hand over my mouth,
fighting the nausea climbing up my
throat.
The candles weren't meant to keep
spirits away. They were to guide them
back to wherever they came from, to keep
them moving past us. Without the light
showing them the path, they'd find
another source, another warmth, another
living glow to carry them through the
dark.
And tonight, the only other light left
was me.
My breath rasped in my throat, shallow
and quick, but I forced myself to move
slowly. Rushing would only make the
candle flicker harder. With how close I
was getting, if it went out, I knew I
would not be able to relight it in time.
The closer I drew to the treeine, the
colder the air became. My bare arms
prickled with goosebumps, and sweat
cooled against the back of my neck.
The pine trunks rose tall and silent
before me, their branches clawing at the
dark sky.
Between them, the flickering lights
spread deeper, forming rows and clusters
among the shadows.
I paused at the edge of the woods, the
scent of damp needles and rotting leaves
curling into my nose.
The candle trembled in the faint breeze
and small flame bending toward the
trees.
I moved forward in a single step, then
another, careful to keep the hold at
level. My hands achd from gripping it so
tightly, but I didn't dare loosen my
hold.
As I crossed into the treeine, the light
shifted. They began to move, drifting
out from behind trunks and thickets.
Figures emerged with them, pale shapes
that blurred at their edges. The faces
were smooth and empty with thin white
skins stretched over blank hollows.
Each one emitted a small light from
their chest. Maybe a representation of
their soulmate manifest, looking like a
flame standing tall without so much as a
tremor.
Each only had one light in them. If I
had come with more candles for safety,
they didn't make a sound. No footfalls,
no breaths, just the soft hiss of wax
burning and the faint crackle of my own
candle as I passed them.
I had to walk slowly, measuring each
step to keep from stubbing over roots or
fallen branches. The candle's flame
pulled my attention, forcing me to watch
it more than my path. The ground was
littered with pine needles and twigs,
each threatening to shift under my
weight.
Every time the wick gutted from a
trembling step, my chest clenched so
hard I felt might vomit from fear alone.
The pale figures pressed closer,
creating a narrow corridor of flickering
gold. The heads turned to follow my
movement, though they had no eyes to see
me with. My scalp prickled with constant
sweat as I felt their attention tighten
around me. a silent, suffocating
curiosity.
They parted ahead, revealing a small
clearing deep among the trees.
In the center
stood my grandmother.
Her thin cotton night gown billowed
faintly around her ankles in the breeze,
though her hair and arms remained
utterly still.
She stared forward, eyes glazed and
unblinking, mouth slack. Her hands hung
at her sides, empty.
A shape moved behind her, taller than
the others, dark enough to drink in
every shred of candle light nearby.
His form shifted with each step, thin
and bony. Its hand emerged from the
gloom, long and skeletal, skin stretched
to over jotting knuckles.
It extended its hand toward mine, palm
up, waiting.
The meaning pressed into my chest with a
weight of stone.
It wanted my candle, my light, in
exchange for Grandma's return. A soul
for a soul. Or at least what it thought
was a soul.
I died to my grip until my knuckles
burned, unable to breathe past the cold
swell in my throat.
Even though I knew I wasn't giving it my
soul, I was still handing over my only
light. Without the flame, would I find
my way back through these trees? Without
it, would I become just another
flickering shape among the silent
congregation?
My grip loosened around the brass
holder. The flame wavered once before
steadying again, bright and calm against
the dark. The skeletal hand remained
outstretched, fingers curling in silent
invitation.
My chest felt tight enough to crack my
ribs apart.
Every instinct screamed to turn and run,
but I forced myself to take a trembling
step forward.
I extended the candle. The figure's hand
closed around the holder, skin crackling
with a sound like frozen branches
breaking.
The instant my fingers let go, the
darkness surged inward. Shadows rushed
past my face, cold and sharp, scraping
against my skin as if testing its
warmth.
I lunged for Grandma, my fingers wrapped
around a thin wrist, gripping bone under
soft skin.
She didn't move at first. For a single
crushing moment, I thought I had traded
a soul for nothing. That I had lost both
of us to the woods forever.
Then her arm twitched in my grasp. Her
chest rose in a sudden ragged breath.
Her eyes flickered with awareness,
confusion clouding her gaze as she
turned her head to look at me.
The shadows shrieked without sound,
rushing forward with a sudden violent
hunger.
Without a candle, I no longer blended
in. And just like an immune system, they
went straight for me as if I were an
invader.
They clawed in my shoulders, scraping
across my back, ripping the thin fabric
of my shirt with ice cold fingers.
I tightened my olden grandma and pulled
her forward, forcing her feet to move
across the pine littered ground.
We stumbled between the pale watches,
weaving through their silent ranks.
Branches snapped in my hair and whipped
across my face, scratching skin roar.
Roots rose from fallen needles, catching
my toes and send me staggering with each
step.
Grandma gasped beside me, half dragged,
her thin legs trembling with effort. The
woods stretched on endlessly, every tree
the same twisted silhouette in the
wavering candle light ahead.
The shadows closed in behind us. I could
feel them brushing against my back,
pressing cold fingers to my spine. My
legs burned with each lunging step,
muscles shaking so hard I thought they
might give out before we reached the
edge of the trees.
We broke from the treeine into the open.
The house stood ahead, porch lights
dark, candles flickering weakly in the
windows. My legs gave out for half a
step and grandma stumbled beside me, her
feet scraping uselessly across the
grass. The shadows poured from the
woods, stretching over the lawn in
curling, gasping streams.
She sagged in my arms, her head falling
against my shoulder, her voice was thin,
barely more than a breath.
"Leave me," she whispered. "You have to
run. They're too close."
"No," I gasped, tightening my grip
around her waist. I'm not leaving you.
Please, she breathed, tears spilling
from her closed eyes. Go. They only need
one.
I tried to pull her forward, but her
knees buckled. It was a miracle she made
it this far in her age, and it didn't
look like it'd be able to make the
distance together.
The shadows surged, reaching for her
first, curling black fingers around her
ankles and calves, creeping up a thin
cotton night gown. Panic burned in my
throat, hot and choking. The house felt
impossibly far away, its candle light
too weak to shield us from the cold tide
crawling across the grass.
A door swung open across the street.
Mr. Paris. Our elderly neighbor stood in
his doorway holding out a pair of thick
pillar candles, the flames strong and
steady in the wind. His eyes were wide,
shining with terror. "Take it!" he
shouted.
I let go of grandma's wrist for a split
second, grabbing the candles from his
shaking hand. I rushed a second into my
grandma's hand as she was being dragged
across the lawn. The instant the flame
passed into a grip, the shadows recoiled
with a snapping hiss. The shapes
crumbled backward, folding in on
themselves until nothing remained but
the night breeze bending in the grass.
I clutched the candle to my chest, its
warmth seeping into my frozen fingers.
Grandma sagged against my side, her
breaths ragged but strong.
The porchboards creaked under our weight
as I half dragged her up the steps and
into the soft circle of flickering
light.
The first pale light of dawn bled into
the sky, turning the edges of the woods
to washed out gray. Street lights
flickered back to life, humming with a
familiar low buzz.
Power returned with a quiet surge,
clocks blinking 12 in every room. The
candle still burned, the flames small
and stubborn against the morning light.
I sat beside grandma's bed, dipping a
cloth in warm water to clean the
scratches along her arms. Her skin was
thin and marked with bruises and cuts
where the shadows had grabbed her. She
winced once, then fell silent again,
staring at the ceiling with heavy eyes.
Almost done, I whispered, wrapping gores
around the deeper cut near her elbow.
My own hands trembled with exhaustion,
wrists blotched with purple where clawed
fingers had scraped away skin.
The house felt empty despite the quiet
wear of appliances coming back to life.
The candles burned on every shelf and
table, the wicks curling black above
trembling flames.
Grandma's gaze shifted toward me,
unfocused at first. Then her eyes
cleared, and she reached out, her
fingertips brushing my wrist.
"Thank you," she whispered, her voice
roar and horsearo.
"Thank you for bringing me home."
I swallowed the tight ache in my throat
and pressed a hand between mine.
Rest now, I said. You're safe.
When a breathing slowed into a gentler
rhythm, I stood and gathered leftover
candles from the hallway. The sun had
risen beyond the fields, painting the
window glass gold.
But I lit one last candle anyway and set
it on the sill. Its flame glowed against
the daylight, a thin orange tongue
dancing in silence.
I watched the treeine beyond our yards
where the shadows still clung low to the
ground. The candle flicked once, its
scent of lavender curling warm into the
room.
Maybe this is how it goes. That when
life ends here, we're taken to be one
with those things.
There's a chance I've disrupted the
natural flow of this town.
All I know is I've bought some more time
for my grandma
for when she inevitably joins them
in the next blackout.
[Music]
I run a demolition outfit based out of
Fort Ridge. Three trucks, five men, and
a schedule so tight it squeaks. I've
made a living taking jobs other crews
turn down. Usually because there are
mess of red tape, mold, or 30 years of
asbestos behind every wall.
Doesn't matter to me. You pay me, I'll
knock it down fast.
That's what made the asylum job so
tempting.
Ridgeway State Hospital had been sitting
on the outskirts of town since the
1930s.
It shut down in ' 87, and no one has
touched it since. Local kids dared each
other to sneak in, but most folks just
steered clear. The town finally got a
grant to tear it down and turn the land
into a civic park or water treatment
facility, depending on which council
member you asked.
I didn't care. The contract was city
approved and a $30,000 bonus was offered
if we finished before the deadline.
30 grand for a month's work was enough
to keep my crew paid through winter. I'd
already started cutting corners to make
sure we beat the clock.
During our predema walkthrough, I had
the blueprints rolled under one arm and
a flashlight in the other. Harris, the
city rep, walked ahead of me, discussing
asbestos maps and loadbearing walls.
Most of the hospital was your standard
early century build, red brick with
steel girders and slate floors.
You could practically smell the
electroshock therapy in the walls.
We reached the subbar stairwell behind
the boiler room.
That's when I noticed something off
at the far end of the corridor where the
blueprint showed an old storage annex.
There was a wall,
not an original wall. This one was newer
with bricks set unevenly and mortar that
was sloppy.
Someone had sealed the hallway by hand.
Blueprint says this leads to archive B.
I told Harris, tapping the page. Looks
like it was part of the original design.
He didn't even slow down. Yeah, that
area got sealed back in the early 2000s.
No entry records, no inspection forms.
City says we're not touching it. Why? I
asked. If it's part of the structure,
we're supposed to clear it. He shook his
head. That's the issue. It's not listed
on the active plans. Legally, it's
unagnowledged. If we file to unseal it,
that opens a chain of delays.
Environmental inspections, historical
society review, maybe even a zoning
appeal.
I frowned. How long are we talking?
4 to 6 weeks minimum. Whole project
freezes until it's cleared. Your bonus
goes up in smoke.
We stood there for a moment, both of us
looking at the brricked wall. The mortar
looked old but brittle.
Someone had done it quickly. No signage,
no permit tags, just a narrow hallway
someone wanted gone.
Mark it inaccessible and move on, Harris
said, scribbling something on his
clipboard. The city's covering its ass.
So should you.
I nodded and we kept walking.
But I didn't stop thinking about that
wall.
If my crew found it while gutting the
substructure, they'd start asking
questions. That meant someone would call
it in and the whole damn timeline could
collapse. I wasn't about to lose my
payday over one sealed room that some
bureaucrat had forgotten to add to the
plans.
I figured I'd handle it quietly. Nights
after the crew clocked out. If there was
something worth seeing behind that wall,
I'd see it myself. No reports, no
delays.
And if it turned out to be nothing,
even better.
We started demolition from the top down.
Roof sheeting, tiles, plaster board, and
loadbearing elements.
Anything that wasn't stone got stripped
and dumped. Within the first few days,
the upper floors were gutted clean.
My crew worked fast. We always did. But
something about Ridgeway State Hospital
slowed them piece by piece.
At first, it was small things. Tools
left in one room ended up in another.
Power flickered even with our generators
running steadily. One of the guys swore
his ladder had shifted on its own while
he was on it. I chocked it up to nerves
and caffeine.
Rushing a job meant taking less
precaution and paying less attention.
The trick is to have just enough to not
have accidents.
Then came the sounds.
Footsteps banging always in the halls we
had already cleared. Hollow echoes that
didn't match our movements.
One afternoon, Carl radioed me from
Eastwing, saying he heard someone
whispering through a vent. Swore he
could hear his name.
I checked it out. The vent was clogged
with 30 years of dust and bird
droppings.
Whatever he'd heard, it wasn't a voice.
But the real shift came with Manny.
He was one of my best guys. Ex-military.
Didn't scare easily. But that morning, I
found him standing in the subb staring
at the bricked up corridor.
He wasn't supposed to be there. I called
his name twice before he turned to face
me. His face was pale, eyes glassy, as
if he'd just come out of a fever dream.
"I'm done," he said. "You can mail my
check."
I frowned. "What happened?
He silently stepped past me, grabbed his
things, and walked straight off sight.
Before he left, he said one thing.
It doesn't want to go.
I didn't ask what it was. I should have,
but we were already behind schedule, and
I couldn't afford to lose another day. I
covered Manny's hours myself, hoping
he'd come to his senses, and return to
work, hauled trash, logged loads, didn't
sleep more than 4 hours a night.
And still, the sealed corridor sat there
in my head like a rotten tooth.
I started dreaming about it, always the
same thing.
One long room, rows of chairs facing a
whitewashed wall.
No windows, no doors, just me standing
at the back watching them. An empty
chair, but it wasn't really empty.
I could feel something waiting on it
just behind the veil.
3 days later, a new city rep showed up.
Young guy, sharp haircut, shoes too
clean for the site.
How's progress? he asked, flipping
through my reports.
Smooth, I lied. Right on target.
He nodded, made a few notes, didn't ask
about the bricked corridor. Probably
didn't even know it was there.
I kept it that way.
The crew clocked out around 6. I stayed
behind, made up a story about reviewing
reports.
The truth was, I didn't want anyone
around when I opened the corridor. Too
many eyes meant too many questions, and
I already had a good rhythm with the
city rep. If I could just clear the
space and log it, I could list it as it
was in the blueprints. Box checked. No
delays.
I wheeled the concrete saw down into the
subb, every step echoing off the stone
walls. The temperature dropped the
deeper I went. Humidity hung in the air,
thick and musty.
The corridor stood waiting at the end of
the service hallway. Its cinder block
seal untouched since the day I first
noticed it.
I marked the wall with chalk, fitted my
respirator,
and started cutting.
It took longer than I expected. The
mortar was thick and industrial grade,
sloppily applied, but heavy set, like
whoever sealed the space hadn't wanted
it reopened.
But $30,000 was waiting on the other
side of a completed demo. And this wall
and what lay beyond stood in the way.
The blocks gave way in chunks. Dust
billowed out in hot, chemical tasting
bursts. I smashed through the final
layer with a sledgehammer, grunting as
stone clattered across the floor. My
flashlight pierced the darkness beyond
the hallway.
It was pristine.
No water damage, no graffiti. The air
smelled faintly of antiseptic. The
lenonium tiles were uncorrected. The
paint a faded institutional green.
My boots left Prince in the dustless
floor, which made no sense.
Everything else in this place had been
eaten by time.
At the end of the hall stood a single
padded cell. The door creaked open under
my hand, revealing a narrow space,
softwalled lined with yellowed cushions.
An old hospital cart sat in the center
fitted with leather restraints.
The mattress was thin, sunken in the
middle. A cracked mirror was mounted
crooked above a bolted desk. I caught my
reflection in the shattered glass. My
face broken into jagged angles.
On the floor, beneath a cut, a circle
had been carved into the tiles. The cuts
were deep and deliberate, each line
etched with something sharp.
Nails, maybe.
The etching was unfamiliar, but felt
wrong, offbalance, like it pulled at
something in the back of my mind I
didn't know I had.
When I walked around, I could feel
myself lean toward it like it had its
own gravity, a vertigo feeling that
always gravitated toward the strange
markings.
A rusted metal chair stood beside the
bed. A patient log book rested on the
seat, its leather cover warped with age.
I opened it with cautious fingers.
The entries were brief and clinical,
typed on a mechanical typewriter.
Most were mundane, dietary notes,
behavior logs, sedation levels.
But the last page stopped me cold.
It was handwritten.
Do not remove her. Do not observe her.
Do not allow her name to be spoken
aloud.
I flipped back. Earlier entries had
referred to her only as the subject, but
in the margins of the log book's back
cover, scratched deep into the leather
was a name.
And then I saw it again and again and
again.
on the padded wall beside the cot on the
mattress straps etched into the foam in
ragged fingernail grooves the same name
over and over.
I didn't speak it, but I read it.
And in that moment, the temperature in
the room dropped so sharply I could see
my breath. The cart creaked behind me.
I wasn't alone anymore.
I backed out of the cell without turning
around. I didn't breathe until I was
back in the corridor, then again when I
made it up the basement stairs. I shut
off the lights, locked the exterior
doors behind me, and didn't stop moving
until I was behind the wheel of my
truck. My hands trembled on the drive
home. I told myself I'd leave it alone
for now, figure out another way to
finish the job. The job had to stay on
track. That was all that mattered.
Before first light, I came back to the
site and sealed the entrance. I dragged
old plywood sheets from a scrap pile,
bolted them over the fresh gap I'd cut
the night before, screwed them tight
into the concrete frame, then tagged the
boards with paint marker.
Asbestos, do not remove.
Later that morning, I told the crew I'd
found some outdated insulation that
needed reporting before we continue
demolition on that section.
"City doesn't want the paperwork," I
said, shaking my head. "They're telling
us to wall it off and move on, so we're
moving on."
Nobody questioned it. Most of them
didn't know about the odd situation
anyway, so they believed whatever I told
them.
But the next day, everything went wrong.
One of the excavators clipped a gas line
that shouldn't have been there. Then the
backho, idle seconds before, lurched
sideways and crushed one of the old
support beams.
Nobody was hurt, but it set us back by
two days. The welder, Nate, caught a
flashback from his own torch. Equipment
failure, second or third degree burns.
He didn't say a word on the way to the
ambulance. Just stared at me, lips
trembling.
Manny didn't come back either.
I kept my mouth shut, told the others it
was old wiring, rusted valves, and bad
luck. Every job this size had hiccups. I
just needed them to keep working.
That night, I reviewed the security from
the demo yard. One of the perimeter
sensors had malfunctioned during the
equipment failures. I scrubbed through
the logs.
Around 2:07 a.m., the infrared sensor
picked up movement. Something moving the
length of the fence. Slow, steady, never
stopping.
It passed beneath the foot lights. No
body heat signature. No footprints left
in the gravel.
I didn't sleep that night.
At home, I heard the name, the one
scratched into the mattress, the walls,
the log cover, whispered through heating
vents.
The voice wasn't mine, wasn't male,
wasn't human.
The fifth accident ended it.
Reggie, one of the oldest on the crew,
dropped a steel support bracket from a
second story scaffold, said his hands
seized up mid swing. When I held him
down, I saw the swelling already forming
around his wrist, bones out of place. He
was shaking.
It wasn't me, he muttered. Something
grabbed me. I swear to God.
That was the last straw. They packed up
and left before lunch.
I didn't try to stop them.
By that point, the job was nearly done.
The southern wing was already leveled.
The rest of the upper floors had been
gutted and stripped to code. We just
needed to bring down the basement shell
and clear the debris. Two days of work,
maybe three. That was all that stood
between me and the bonus.
The inspection was scheduled for Monday
morning. I could already feel the city
rep's smug tone when he tell me the
penalty for delays.
I wasn't going to let that happen.
The truth was simple. I needed the
payout. My own truck was 3 months behind
on payments. My wife had taken our
daughter to her sisters after the last
layoff. If this job fell through, I
didn't have a next one lined up.
So, I came back that night with gloves,
flood lights, and a crowbar.
I just wanted to finish what I'd
started.
The plywood barrier was still in place
over the sealed corridor. I pried off
the boards one by one and stacked them
neatly against the wall, telling myself
it was just another hallway.
I kept my eyes down, focused on the
floor, and walked slowly down the slope
into the untouched wing.
The air shifted as soon as I crossed the
threshold.
Heavy, no dust, still smelled of
antiseptic and something sweeter
underneath, like spoiled fruit.
The crying started while I was checking
the junction pipes near the boiler
panel.
It was faint at first, so soft I thought
it might be water in the walls.
But then I heard the breath between
sobs. A wet rasping inhale.
A woman's voice broken and rhythmic
repeating something I couldn't quite
understand. A lullabi with no tune.
I followed it.
Each door I passed was open just a
crack. I kept glancing in, expecting to
find someone inside. But every room was
empty.
Old beds, restraints on the wall hooks,
and cabinets bolted shut.
Then I reached the padded room.
The crying stopped.
I froze in the center of the corridor,
surrounded by doors that had quietly
clicked shut behind me. The padded room
was just ahead.
I tilted toward it, careful not to make
a sound.
It looked the same as before, empty, cut
untouched, restraints neatly folded.
No visible change, but something in the
air had thickened. It pressed against my
skin in a way that made my pulse skip a
beat.
I stepped inside.
The mirror was cracked again, a fresh
line through the glass, spider webbing
out from the center.
Beneath it, the old circle scratched
into the floor seemed more faded than I
recalled, like someone had been working
at it.
But there was no one here. Nobody, no
footprints in the dustless room, no
source of the crying.
Still, I could feel her. not see, not
hear, but feel.
The room wasn't empty anymore. Something
stood just beyond my focus, behind the
veil of what my eyes could comprehend.
I backed out of the doorway, one step at
a time. Didn't turn around, didn't
speak.
The crying didn't return, but the
silence was worse.
I scoped out what needed to be done for
demolition.
But as I left, the hallway was
different. Longer, narrower. The angles
had warped somehow. Every step felt
wrong, like the building had shifted
when no one was looking. I found the
room again, but the door wasn't the same
anymore. Wider, open just a crack,
waiting for me.
The cot was empty, restraints gone. The
circle in the floor had been scraped
almost completely away.
I could hear her now, not beside me, but
inside the space, breathing in rhythm
with mine, close enough that the air
stirred when I moved.
It hit me suddenly and stupidly.
her name. It had been carved everywhere
for a reason, not to draw her out, to
bury her. I remembered old stories,
demon names, binding rights, exorcisms.
Speak the name and the thing loses its
power.
I stood at the edge of the circle and
whispered it once, then again. The
silence pulled back from the corners of
the room.
And she answered,
not in words, not even sound, but in
pressure, in presence. Something stepped
into the room that hadn't fully existed
before. The groaned under unseen
weight. The restraint snapped tight
without hands. The mirror uncracked
itself with a low pop.
And for a split second, my reflection
wasn't alone.
A second face stood behind mine, pale,
incomplete.
I stumbled back, gasping.
The silence didn't return, not fully.
The room didn't breathe the same way it
had before.
A slow pressure thickened in my ears,
then in my chest, until I couldn't tell
if I was inhaling or if something was
pushing against my lungs from the
inside.
A faint creek echoed behind me. I
turned, heart hammering, but the doorway
was empty, still cracked open, still
letting in the same cold hallway air.
But something was in the room now. Not
invisible, not visible either, just
present, as though I'd stepped onto a
stage where someone else had been
waiting for the queue.
And now I'd spoken it.
The cup pulled tight against its bolts.
The mattress sank in the middle, pitched
down by nothing I could see. In the
mirror, I saw the shape again, clearer
this time. Not fully formed, but tall,
holloweyed, and standing so close behind
me. I could feel heat on the back of my
neck.
My own face was still, but hers were
moving, lips forming syllables I
couldn't hear, mouththing the same name
I just said.
I backed out slowly, holding my breath.
The air around the circle felt different
now, less like a warning, more like a
crack in concrete that had just spread
wide open.
I thought I'd been clever. I thought
knowing her name gave me power. But as I
stepped out into the hallway and the
door clicked softly shut behind me.
I realized
it had never been about power.
It was about permission.
I woke on a stretcher strapped in
sunlight bleeding through the clouds
overhead.
The sky was too bright. Voices moved
around me in snippets, dulled and
distant, warped as if underwater.
Must have missed his last checkout scan,
dehydrated, maybe concussed.
An EMT leaned closer and said, "You're
lucky someone noticed. If you'd stayed
in there much longer."
I blinked, my throat dry. I asked how
long I'd been inside.
She frowned.
3 days.
That didn't make sense. I told her it
had only been an hour, maybe two.
She looked at the other medic and didn't
answer.
Later, in the ambulance, someone
explained they found the subb corridor
sealed shut. The supports must have
shifted behind me.
No one had even known I was there until
the city reps saw the site empty and
checked the logs and saw I hadn't
checked out.
We tried to jackhammer through the wall.
The whole damn passage had folded in on
itself. Freak structural failure.
I didn't argue. I didn't have the
energy.
They kept me overnight for observation.
No injuries aside from a shallow scrape
on my wrist.
I didn't remember getting it.
The next morning, I was released. I
turned my phone on in the parking lot.
27 missed calls. A new voicemail was
left from the city rep saying not to
worry about the bonus, that they'd
extend the project deadline, that I
should take some time off, and new crew
would finish the remaining tear down at
their expense as compensation.
I went home and slept for nearly 2 days,
dreamless, empty sleep.
Then I got the update email.
Cleanup successful. Site declared safe.
No structural hazards or environmental
concerns. Photos of the cleared corridor
and cell attached.
I clicked through the images. The
hallway was pictured there long and
cracked with a ceiling slouching from
age. The padded cell hadn't changed.
Caught in the corner. Cracked mirror
restraint still bolted to the frame.
Leather dried and curling at the edges.
No name marked on any of the objects
anymore. The circle of markings was
almost entirely erased from the floor.
No one had tried to make sense of it.
And yet
nothing happened.
The demolition crews had gone in, walked
through that space, demolished it, and
moved on.
They saw old damage, remnants of a
decaying building
and treated it that way. Just another
strange wing in a place full of bad
history.
The job was on schedule. According to
the update, they'd hit the new deadline.
No delays, no reports of equipment
failure or personnel incidents. Nothing
like what happened to me and my crew.
The email ended by telling me the bonus
was mine and I should expect it within
the coming days.
I actually laughed. A short, breathless
sound I hadn't felt in weeks.
It hadn't been real. It couldn't have
been.
Stress, maybe, sleep deprivation, the
pressure of the deadline, and too much
time in a building full of ghosts that
weren't mine.
They went inside, nothing happened, and
I was home, safe, paid, job finished.
That should have been the end of it.
But that night, sitting at my kitchen
table, I opened the photos again,
scrolled through slowly, stopped on one,
the cell shot from the hallway.
I zoomed in on the mirror.
I expected to see something. My brain on
overload and I was paranoid.
Nothing was there.
Tension was building. I felt like I was
in the hallway again. The pressure of
the room weighing on me as I tried to
solve something I didn't know needed
solving. I flicked through the pictures,
zooming in and scanning pixel by pixel
for a clue, a hint toward an answer.
Yet nothing I saw could explain why I
could feel it again. The presence
returning.
I lifted my head, ready to feel like I'm
lifting my head out of a barrel of
water.
Yet the relief never came.
And finally, I realized why I could feel
like everything was off.
My room was darker than I remembered.
colder. Chills trickled through me in a
stream.
No one else was in the room. Nothing
moved.
But the silence had changed. Thick now,
a waiting kind of quiet.
I closed the laptop, stared at the wall
for a long time.
Maybe the new crew didn't find her
because she wasn't there.
Maybe
she came with me.
I work nights at a storage facility on
the edge of town. The kind of place
nobody really notices until they need
it. It's a squat little compound tucked
between the back end of a shuttered
strip mall and a drainage canal that
smells worse in the summer.
Most of the fluorescent lights hum or
flicker. A few don't bother turning on
at all. The vending machine in the
office takes your money, but won't give
you a soda unless you hit the right spot
on the side with a heel of your hand.
The job isn't complicated. Lock the gate
at 11:00. Unlock it at 6:00. Walk the
rose once or twice during the night.
Make sure no tweakers are nesting inside
an unlocked unit. The cameras are mostly
active. The alarms work when they want
to. If anyone asks, the answer is always
the same. Nobody's supposed to be here
after dark.
I've had co-workers on and off. They
don't stick around. Teenagers, burnouts,
paroleies, working offc court ordered
employment. They come and go fast enough
that I don't remember their names.
Management doesn't seem to care who's on
shift so long as someone fills out the
log books and nobody burns the place
down.
There's only one real rule here, and
it's not in the handbook.
Don't mess with unit 103.
Old padlock on the door, heavy enough to
stop a crowbar.
The records flag it as do not access.
No one opens it. No one rents it. Not
officially.
Still, every month there's a payment.
Always cash, always exact. No return
address on the envelope.
Some months the envelope isn't there at
all. Doesn't matter. The ledger gets
updated, paid in full.
As far as I can tell, unit 103's been
here longer than the company that runs
this place. Maybe longer than the
building itself.
The email came in on a Monday night. One
of those generic corporate blasts from
some office far away.
All units must be accounted for by the
end of the quarter. Visual confirmation,
inventory checklist, photographic
evidence, the usual box ticking to
satisfy someone's spreadsheet.
I scrolled through the list, already
knowing the answer before I asked.
Still, I brought it up during our weekly
call with the site manager.
What about 103?
There was a pause. Then my manager's
tone shifted just enough for me to catch
it.
Skip it. Don't log it. You don't want to
mess with that paperwork. Just trust me.
That was it. End of discussion.
Later, I brought it up in the break room
with one of my co-workers, a guy whose
name I hadn't bothered to learn, just
chatting between rounds of walking the
fence line. I mentioned something about
unit 103, half jokingly.
He stopped chewing his sandwich.
"Don't even say the number out loud," he
told me. No laughter, no followup. He
packed up his lunch and went back to
sweeping out an empty unit without
another word.
I started paying closer attention after
that. Little things caught my eye. Locks
on units that hadn't been opened in
years. Looks as if they had been freshly
handled. Scratches on 103's padlock. New
ones gouged into the old metal. I knew
nobody had the keys, not even me.
That's when curiosity started digging
in. Not a question of why anymore, just
a question of when I'd stop looking
and start doing.
On slow nights, I started digging
through old records. There wasn't much
else to do. A few battered filing
cabinets sat in the back office stuffed
with faded contracts and receipts going
back decades.
Most of it was routine late payments,
auctions, and unit transfers,
but not 103.
Unit 103 had been listed in every set of
records I could find, including those
predating the current building. I found
paperwork dating back far enough that
the company name on the letterhead no
longer existed.
Handwritten leases renewed over and
over. Different names on the documents,
but none of them sounding real. LLC's
dissolved 50 years ago. Banks that
folded in the 70s. Some of the
signatures barely passed for handwriting
at all. Jagged scrolls, symbols, loops.
A few were signed in red ink that had
bled through the pages beneath. One
looked smeared as if the ink hadn't been
allowed to dry properly.
Still, the payment never stopped.
Every month without fail, the ledger
marked paid. No account overdue, no
notices sent.
The hallway lights started going out
next. first flickering, then shorting
entirely.
Maintenance came twice, replaced the
bulbs, and checked the wiring.
Both times the lights failed again
within the week. The rest of the
building stayed fine.
I started losing track of time during my
shifts. Waking up from what felt like
less sleep and more like a trance.
Always standing in the same place.
Halfway down the hallway facing unit
103.
I couldn't say how long I'd been there.
Minutes, hours, just staring at that
dented metal door with its rusted
padlock hanging loose on the hatch.
One night, I knelt to check the gap
beneath it. Found something wedged
there. Dry, cracked pieces of something
curled in on themselves. Too small to be
cloth, too fibrous to be bone. Not
organic exactly, but not quite anything
else either. I flushed them down the
breakroom toilet, thinking it was
something that needed disposing of. But
later, I couldn't shake the feeling I
should have kept them.
Co-workers started complaining after
that. Scratching noises from inside 103,
shuffling sounds, something knocking
slow and steady from within.
Management's response was flat.
Rats, they said, don't ask again.
Management stopped responding to my
questions. I stopped asking, not because
I didn't want answers anymore, but
because I wanted proof, something
undeniable.
I started watching 103 more closely.
Every night of my rounds, I checked the
dust patterns across the concrete. The
grime in this place settled thick, but
around 103,
it moved.
Fine layers swept into spirals. Smears
stretched toward the door frame as if
something had dragged itself forward on
hands or elbows. Footprints showed up
where no one had walked. Always leading
to the door, never away.
The smell grew worse by the week. Not a
sharp stink of mold or decay. Something
colder. Wet concrete left too long in
standing water. Burnt metal. rust
blooming under damp stone.
It hung in the air even when the wind
cut through the rows of units heavier
near 103 than anywhere else.
One night in the back of an old
maintenance manual, I found a log book I
hadn't seen before. Torn pages,
scribbled notes. Most of it was routine.
Bulbs replaced, doors rehung, pest
control visits.
The final entry stopped me cold. Written
in shaky block letters across the last
page.
It's not what's in there, it's what it
thinks it's keeping out.
I waited for someone to step in. A
manager, an inspector, even another
faceless corporate email reminding me
not to ask questions.
But no one came. No one seemed to care.
However, I gained a new understanding,
or at least a theory to work with.
The rule wasn't about keeping us safe.
It was about keeping it undisturbed,
about leaving it unobserved. Containment
through neglect.
Watching it gave it shape. Thinking
about it gave it weight.
And now I'd been paying attention for
far too long. too late to go back to
ignoring it.
So, I went about trying to fix it.
One night, after locking the front gate
and double-checking the cameras, I
grabbed a pair of bolt cutters from the
tool locker, walked the rows like I
always did, except this time, I didn't
stop at the end of the hallway.
I went straight to 103.
The padlock looked heavier than it was.
Old steel scabbed with rust. It gave way
on the second squeeze.
The metal snapped clean through, falling
to the ground without a sound.
I pulled the door open, slow, careful,
expecting something worse than what I
found.
Nobody, no monster waiting in the dark.
Not even the expected black void
stretching off into nowhere.
Just the storage unit. Concrete walls,
metal shelves bolted to the sides,
coated in a thick layer of undisturbed
dust.
In the center, a chair, wooden, plain,
set facing the back wall.
Nothing sat in it. Nothing crouched
behind it. No stains, no scratches, no
signs of violence or ritual or anything
else my imagination had been feeding me
for weeks.
I felt disappointed, ashamed almost all
that paranoia for an empty room.
When I tried to close the door again, it
didn't fit the frame.
The whole door frame had shifted, warped
slightly outward, bent at the edges,
metal flexed out from the concrete.
Simply put, it no longer closed all the
way.
I remember the door being airtight. This
halfin gap wasn't something I'd simply
missed in my observations.
Still, I had to close it. I jammed on
the old lock and twisted it to look
untouched, knowing others avoided 103 on
their shifts.
It started slow.
A week after I opened 103,
other units began unlocking themselves.
Not kicked open, not broken into, just a
jar, barely noticeable unless you were
paying attention.
A door hanging an inch off the latch. A
padlock dangling loose already been
secure the night before.
Inside, things didn't make sense. TVs
left behind were still warm to the
touch. The standing lights blinking in
dark rooms with no power connection.
Fridges humming quietly. Lights
flickering behind cracked doors. Food
sitting on tables, untouched, but far
too fresh for how long these units have
been sealed.
Each one felt paused, suspended in the
exact moment their owners stepped away.
Time bent around those thresholds.
Minutes passed strangely when I stood in
them. Watches ticked slowly. Phones
refused to keep signal.
I reported it, of course, logged
everything. Photos, serial numbers,
detailed notes on the oddities.
management responded with the same tone
they used for 103.
Forced calm, thin smiles, tight voices.
Unit shift sometimes, they said. Locks
fail. These things happen.
When I pressed them, asking why none of
this was in the manuals and why there
wasn't a protocol. They only grew
quieter. Reassurances fell flat.
Stick to the rounds. Keep your head
down.
They sent a guy from maintenance to
relock the doors. He worked without
comment, without hesitation,
locked everything up and left with a nod
as though this was routine, as though
this was exactly what he had been hired
to do.
Although he never saw that unit 103 was
actually unlocked, as he avoided it,
presumably by instruction from
management.
The message was clear. Ignore it. Leave
it alone and it stays manageable.
Poke it and things get worse.
That was the rule. Ignorance kept it
dosile. Attention made it restless.
But that was the problem. I couldn't
unsee what I had started. I couldn't
unthink it. I had let something stretch.
And now it was pulling at the seams of
the whole place. I'd been curious. I had
gone too far.
Still, I told myself I could fix it. I
could put it back the way it was. Seal
103, relock the others, return the
building to its quiet, decaying routine.
I thought maybe if I moved fast enough
and showed I understood the job now, it
would let me.
That was the only plan left. Fix it. Put
everything back in its place.
When alone, I went back to 103 with a
new lock in hand, heavier this time,
industrial grade. I drilled fresh holes,
set new brackets, and reinforced the
frame where it had warped. When I
cinched the lock shut, it felt solid,
secure.
By the next night, it had bent itself
open again. The metal twisted outward at
the edges, straining against bolts I
knew I had driven clean. Nothing
dramatic, no noise, no spectacle, just
quiet pressure until the steel gave way.
I tried again. Different lock, a
different bracket, more reinforcement.
the same result.
The door refused to stay closed.
Management knew I did not even need to
tell them. They called me into the
office at the end of my shift. No
warning, no explanation, just the text
from the manager's personal phone.
Come to the office. Bring your keys.
The lights were already off when I got
there. Only the hallway bulbs still
burned, buzzing faintly against the
silence. I half expected the door to be
locked, half expected to find nobody
waiting for me at all. But the door
swung open as I approached.
Inside, the manager sat behind the desk,
hands folded over a manila folder that
bore no label. He didn't gesture for me
to sit. Didn't offer a drink, just
watched me come in and close the door
behind me.
For a long moment, neither of us spoke.
"Do you know why you're here?" he asked
at last, his voice quiet, measured.
I shook my head. I kept my hands on my
keys. Part of me wondered if this was
the end of the line, if I had looked too
closely, pried too far, if they were
going to walk me down to 103, unlock the
door, and shut it behind me.
I imagine you think you've been clever,
he said, breaking into 103, trying to
fix what you don't understand.
He opened the folder. Inside were papers
I didn't recognize. My employee file may
be a list of incidents, security logs,
photos of me on my rounds, standing too
long outside wrong doors, opening the
wrong locks.
We warn people for a reason. The manager
said that unit stays closed because
ignoring it keeps it quiet like a dog
that forgets to bark if no one is
around. Attention stirs it up. Curiosity
wakes it. obsession makes it stretch.
He closed the folder with a soft tap of
his fingers.
Most people can't help themselves. They
leave eventually or they're removed. You
lasted longer. You showed patience. You
followed the pattern. You didn't just
break the rules. You tested them.
I felt my throat dry out.
So what happens now?
He smiled, not cruy, almost kindly.
Think of it as a promotion.
He pushed a new set of keys across the
desk toward me. Not just for the gates,
not just for the office. A ring of keys
I didn't recognize. Keys that had weight
to them. Keys that belong to things I
hadn't seen yet.
This place needs a caretaker. People who
understand the rhythm of things. People
willing to watch the locks and turn them
when they stop holding.
It's not an easy job. It's not always
clear what you're keeping out or what
you're keeping in.
He leaned back in the chair, still
watching me with that calm, unreadable
expression.
The manager slid the folder closer to me
with one finger, nodding for me to open
it. Inside wasn't just my employee file.
There were other names, other dates, a
list of people who had come before me.
Some I recognized from the old
maintenance logs I'd found buried in
storage. Each entry ended the same way.
Reassigned containment oversight.
No resignation dates, no severance
details, just that flat final note.
You're not just getting a promotion, the
manager said. You're inheriting
something, a responsibility that doesn't
end. Not until it passes on again.
He stood, stretched slowly, tired bones
cracking in his shoulders.
In the dim light, he leaned towards me.
I got a better look at his face. He
looked young but wore old features. Age
eroded on him in layers.
This building doesn't exist to store
furniture or paperwork or people's junk.
It exists to hold things in.
103 isn't special. It's just the oldest.
The others are newer, less settled. But
they all need attention. They all need
caretakers who know which doors to leave
alone and which ones to lock twice.
I looked down at the folder. Some units
have been reclassified over time. The
numbers changed. The location shifted,
but the patterns were there. Always a
handful growing restless at once. Always
the same kind of person brought in to
notice, to intervene.
If no one does the job, the doors won't
stay closed. He said, "When one opens,
the others follow. You saw it yourself.
You started the chain. You're the only
one who can put it back the way it was."
I asked the question hanging at the back
of my throat.
"What if I leave?"
He smiled, small. I couldn't tell if it
was pity or amusement. People
don't leave. They either lock the doors
or join what's behind them.
He picked up the folder again, tapped it
twice against the desk like closing the
lid on a box.
You've lasted longer than most. That
tells us you understand.
Or you will soon enough.
He showed me to the door. The hallway
stretched out ahead. Quiet as ever, the
keys heavy in my hand. Too late to
pretend I hadn't earned them.
I walked the facility alone that night,
the new keys cold in my hand. The rows
of units stretched out under dead
fluorescent lights, the air hanging
heavy with a faint scent of dust and
damp concrete.
I thought at first it was my
imagination. The way my breath fogged in
the air, even though the night wasn't
cold enough for it, but the further I
walked, the colder it felt, the
stillness wasn't right.
Doors hung open where they shouldn't.
Not wide, not broken, just a jar. A
fraction of an inch here, a full
handspan there, locks dangling loose,
some fallen to the ground without a
sound.
Lights flickered behind those doors.
Televisions burst faintly in empty
rooms. Something inside breathed in time
with my footsteps, slow and deliberate,
though nothing moved in the spaces
beyond the thresholds.
No shapes waited in the dark. No faces
pressed into the cracks, just open doors
waiting.
I understood it wasn't about monsters
hiding inside. It was about the act
itself. Doors open too long invited
attention. Left unchecked, they invited
worse. If I didn't close them, someone
else would pay the price for my
hesitation.
So,
I went to work.
One by one, I closed them, checked the
seals, turned the locks using the new
keys until they clicked shut, logged
each one in the ledger with slow, steady
handwriting.
Lock, ledger, lock, ledger.
No answers waited for me. No final
reveal of what I'd been keeping in or
what might one day slip free.
Just the cold repetition of the task I
had inherited. A rhythm as old as the
building itself.
Lock ledger. Move on to the next.
Years went by without me noticing. Or
maybe noticing didn't matter anymore. As
soon as I was proficient at the job, my
manager disappeared.
Just stopped showing up to work. I saw a
letter from upper management simply
stating that I was the new acting
manager.
The job never changed.
But I did. My bones ache in ways they
shouldn't. Eyes slow to adjust, joint
stiff. Some mornings I sat too long in
the chair at the desk, staring at the
log book, unsure whether I had finished
the shift or was about to start one.
They told me it was stress or lack of
sleep. Maybe I believed that if I wasn't
still young enough to know better.
I watched the new hires come and go.
Most treated this place as a pit stop. A
few months of easy nights, just enough
money to bridge the gap to something
better. They talked about future plans,
schools, promotions, travel, anything
else.
Some lasted less than a week. The long
hallways got to them. The way sound
carried when it shouldn't, the way
certain doors seem to breathe if you
stood too close.
They all left in the end. They always
do.
Somewhere along the way, I started
slipping, missing things, locks were
undone for longer than they should have
been. Units shifting without my notice.
I double back on rounds and find doors
open behind me, though I just walked
past.
I told myself it was age catching up.
That made it easier to explain, easier
than admitting this place was draining
me, pulling something from me a little
more each year.
Then came the new hire,
young, quiet, observant in the way that
made me weary. I caught them lingering
too long in front of 103, asking the
wrong questions, running their
fingertips along the locks like they
were looking for something hidden
beneath the rust.
I recognized the look. I remembered
wearing it.
One night, as they clocked in, I handed
them the round sheet, casual as I could
manage.
Don't bother with 103. I told them trust
me. Just keep the doors locked. That's
the job.
They nodded, said they understood.
But I knew better. I'd said the same
thing once and still found myself
standing with bolt cutters in my hands,
staring at a door that would not stay
shut.
Now I wait.
Wait to see if they'll listen or if
they'll open it. Wait to see if they'll
end up in this chair with my keys on
their belt wondering when the ache
started and why the clock ticks so
slowly here.
Hopefully maybe someone else can take
this from me that I can finally leave.
Whatever leaving means.
But I wonder what happens to me when
that day comes. Where I'll go,
or if there's a door somewhere waiting
for me, too.
Dentists are the worst patients. We all
know the signs, but we also know all the
excuses.
It started a week ago with a deep ache
in my jaw. At first, it was sharp and
persistent. Then, it settled into a low,
pulsing pressure that spread up to the
side of my face.
For the past few days, I'd catch myself
grinding against it without knowing,
biting down just to meet the resistance.
It got bad enough that I had to take an
X-ray between appointments.
I thought maybe I'd miss something
obvious like a cracked cusp, an inflamed
ligament,
but everything came up clean.
I told myself it would ease up in a day
or two. Most things do.
I work at a small dental practice, which
consists of three rooms in a waiting
area, no larger than a living room.
The building had once been a bank long
before my time, and the old vault door
still sat bolted to the rear hallway
wall, a relic we couldn't afford to
remove.
We used the vault as a supply room now.
Stock came in through the side entrance
and got stored behind that heavy door
where the safety deposit boxes used to
be.
I'd taken over the practice from my
mentor nearly 20 years ago back when the
carpets were new and the NHS still sent
inspectors.
Since then, I've had budgets slashed,
suppliers cutting corners, fewer staff,
and fewer patients who could afford
regular care.
But I kept going.
The girl in the chair today couldn't
have been more than eight. She was
nervous, fidgety, her small hands
tugging at the cuff of a school jumper
as we went through the usual questions
like, "How many times a day do you
brush?" and "Manual or electric?" All of
which her mother answered.
She chipped one of her mers chewing on a
hard suite, and a small cavity had
opened up beneath a crack just deep
enough to need filling before it turned
into something worse.
She looked terrified.
"It's just a small filling, that's all,"
I reassured her, keeping my voice low
and easy. The tone I'd perfected over
years to calm my patience.
"Nothing you'll even notice after a
day."
She gave me a look when she wasn't so
sure. I had one just last week myself, I
added, opening my mouth so she could get
a good view and pointing towards the
tooth with a gloved finger.
Didn't hurt at all. Barely felt it.
Really
a lie. Technically, the ache had been
waking me up some nights now. A deep
throbbing thing under the back of my mer
they'd patched with one of the new
composite kits.
That's what I get for letting a student
dental nurse practice on me. But I
assured this girl that she had nothing
to worry about. I had perfected this.
She seemed to relax a little at that,
enough to lean back without gripping the
chair arms so tightly.
Kelly stood to my left, ready with a
suction, watching the girl more than the
tools.
She had been assisting in this practice
longer than I'd been running it. She had
a good instinct for nerves, knew when to
speak and when not to. I gave her a
small nod of approval and adjusted the
light.
As I worked, a slow, pulsing pressure in
my jaw, which seemed to keep in time
with the drill. I ignored it.
When the girl and her mother left, I
cleaned down the room and logged the
notes into the system. Another job done.
Outside, the afternoon had started to
slide into gray. The sky thick with a
kind of clouds that promised rain by
evening.
I was halfway through preparing for my
next patient when the receptionist
buzzed through.
Mr. Collins is here early, says he's in
quite a bit of discomfort.
I checked the screen. Collins had only
been in 2 weeks ago. A standard cavity,
nothing remarkable.
composite filling, same batch as the
others.
Just as I was about to call him, I
caught a notification at the bottom of
my screen. It was another email from my
daughter, Claire.
I didn't have time to open it now. She
was still abroad enjoying her 20ies,
moving from place to place. She
mentioned before that she didn't trust
the dentists out there. Just a few weeks
ago, I sent her some spare composite
kits, adhesives, and a new pack of Etch
and Bond. They were extras from the new
supplier. They had sent more than I
ordered, probably hoping to keep me on
as a regular customer.
I sighed and rubbed at my jaw. Then I
called Collins through.
He shuffled into the chair with a stiff
weariness.
He was in his mid-4s. Over the 10 years
it'd been coming here, I'd learned that
he was a factory worker and the kind of
man who didn't complain unless something
was really wrong.
"It's been aching like hell," he said.
"Keeps me up some nights. Feels like
it's moving, if that makes sense."
I nodded, already pulling up the X-ray
from last time. "Any swelling? Fever?"
"No fever. a bit tender, hurts more at
night. It has a dull sort of pressure.
I lined him up for a fresh X-ray,
tilting the sensor to catch the apex
properly.
My jaw throbbed as I worked as if it
were keeping pace with the hum of the
machine. I tried not to rub at it while
he watched.
When the image loaded, I pulled up the
last one beside it for comparison.
I'd taken it barely a fortnite ago.
I was expecting a slight shift, perhaps
a faint halo at the apex, something I
could attribute to early pubertus or a
missed micro fracture, something
familiar.
Instead, the interior of the tooth
looked dramatically worse.
There were voids and areas beneath the
enamel that had been solid a week ago,
now hollowed.
The density wasn't right, and on closer
inspection, there was a neat round hole.
I leaned in closer to the monitor. I've
been staring at dental films for 30
years, and I'd never seen voids like
that. Clean, deliberat,
almost surgical, except no drill had
done this.
Still, I kept my tone calm when I turned
back to Collins. No point worrying him
unnecessarily.
All right, let's have a closer look. Sit
back for me.
He settled into the chair again, slower
this time, rubbing his jaw with a wse as
he went. I called through for one of the
dental nurses to come in and assist, and
told her I'd be removing the filling to
take a closer look. Kelly came in.
"Composites failing already?" she asked,
pulling on gloves.
Maybe I need a proper look, I said.
She didn't ask to see the X-ray and set
up the tray.
Despite a lack of questions, we both
knew patients didn't usually end up back
in the chair this soon, unless something
had gone wrong.
Collins lay back and waited.
I adjusted the light, checked the
anesthetic had taken hold, and gave it
another minute just to be sure. No need
to rush.
The drill felt heavier than usual in my
hand. I worked carefully, easing through
the composite in slow, deliberate
passes.
Kelly held the suction ready without a
word.
Something about the way the filling
lifted didn't sit right. The material
crumbled away too easily, coming loose
in brittle flakes instead of the solid,
predictable chunks I'd placed
beneath it. The tooth wasn't solid. The
structure had given up on holding shape.
Kelly noticed it, too. I didn't need to
look to know she was watching.
When I glanced up, she met my eye with a
silent, questioning look.
I gave a small nod.
Carry on.
I irrigated the cavity, cleared what
debris I could, suction catching the
fragments as they floated free.
The deeper I went, the more of it seemed
to fall apart under the burr.
It shouldn't have looked like that. Not
this soon. Not from a simple filling.
Kelly handed me the endo probe without
asking. I tapped gently at the exposed
dentin, probing for stability.
The tip sank deeper than it should have,
catching an avoid beneath the surface.
I paused, leaning in closer, adjusting
the light for a better view.
The walls of the tooth flexed under
pressure and gave way too easily.
Beneath it all, beneath what should have
been a solid structure,
was space.
I felt Kelly nervously watching me work.
I rinsed again, dried the area, and
leaned in with a mirror. The void seemed
to taper off somewhere deeper than I
could reach. A narrow track disappearing
beneath what remained of the root
structure.
It wasn't a crack. It wasn't decay.
It looked, for lack of a better word,
eaten.
Technically, it was still repairable.
The nerve looked untouched, and there
was just enough structure left to
rebuild on. Nothing a decent lining and
fresh composite couldn't shore up for
now. "Let's get the filling kit," I
said, sitting back.
Kelly peeled off her gloves and went to
the supply cupboard. I heard the box
tear as she opened it.
"They make these things thinner every
year," she said, frowning at the mess.
"You so much as look at the strip wrong,
and it bursts."
The packaging was flimsy because the
supplier was cheap. I'd started ordering
from abroad when the budget shrank
further.
It was from somewhere Eastern European,
and half the instructions were printed
in a language I couldn't read. We've
been running lean for years. You cut
corners where you had to.
I worked quickly but carefully, lining
the cavity and rebuilding what I could.
It wasn't perfect, but it would hold for
now.
Colin sat up slowly once I was done,
stretching his numb jaw.
Give that a day or two to settle, I told
him. If it gives you any more trouble,
you know where to find me.
He nodded.
Thanks, Doc. We'll keep an eye on it.
Don't hesitate to reach out.
Kelly stripped off her gloves and
started clearing the tray. She waited
until Collins had gone before she spoke
up, hovering by the sink with a forward
brow.
What was that? She asked quieter now.
I've never seen a tooth come apart like
that.
Neither have I, I said.
She rinsed the instrument slower than
usual, like she was waiting for me to
come up with an answer.
It looked,
I don't know, like it had rotted from
the inside out.
She said the scaler down a little harder
than necessary.
Not the Kay though, was it? No, I said
not the Kay.
She gave a short shake of her head
almost to herself.
Weird one.
Kelly wasn't one to push, but I could
feel her watching as I rolled my chair
back to the computer, waiting for me to
tell her it was nothing, or that I'd
seen worse, or that I knew exactly what
had caused it.
When she realized I didn't have an
answer, she left to go on a break.
With a bit of downtime before my next
patient, I opened up my inbox. Cla's
emails were still sitting there, flagged
in bold. I clicked open the first one.
Hey, Dad. I got around to using the
stuff you sent. Figured you'd find this
funny. I propped up a standing mirror on
the kitchen table, wedged the torch
between two cookbooks, and angled
everything just right so I could see
what I was doing. Looked ridiculous.
Crouched over my own reflection with a
filling kit in one hand and a dental
probe in the other. I should have taken
a picture. You'd either have died
laughing or disowned me on the spot.
Probably both.
It's not perfect, but it's holding. I'm
pretty proud of it if I'm honest.
Thought you'd be proud, too, considering
how I used to cry anytime I lost the
milk tooth. When I finally make it back
home, you'd better have a job waiting
for me. Love, Claire.
I leaned back in the chair and let
myself smile just for a moment. Then I
clicked open the next email she'd sent
earlier. It wasn't like her sending two
so close together.
Hey, Dad. Hope you're all right. You've
been in my mind lately.
I'm starting to think I didn't do the
filling properly after all. My jaw's
been aching for a few days now, worse
than I thought it would be. It's gotten
to the point I can't really chew on that
side anymore. It feels like the whole
tooth's about to fall apart if I press
on it too much. I'm pretty sure that
wasn't in the instructions. Not that I
could have read them anyway.
It's not just uncomfortable anymore.
It's painful. It keeps me up at night
sometimes. I know I should get it looked
at, but you know me, too stubborn. And
if I'm honest, I don't really trust
anyone over here to get it right. It
makes me nervous just thinking about it.
Do you think this is normal? Is this
what happens if you mess it up, or is it
something worse?
Let me know when you can. Love, Claire.
It was in that moment that I became
aware of how hard my jaw was throbbing
beneath a mer. I pressed my tongue
against it without thinking
and I felt it shift.
It frightened me to the point where I
froze and I sat very still for a long
time. Let the pull struck out slow and
thick through my jaw.
Then energy surged through me and my
fingers moved before I thought about
what they were doing. I pulled up
records, checking dates, dragging
appointments onto the screen one by one.
Collins, the girl, me, and then Mrs.
Graham, the first to receive one of the
new fillings.
All of us were patched from the same
shipment of cheaper supplies.
The knot in my stomach tightened as I
scrolled through the invoices. The dates
lining up too neatly.
Every name, every filling, every order.
It sat there in black and white, plain
as anything,
every one of them.
My jaw throbbed harder like something
was still working its way through bone.
Patient, slow, chewing its way out. I
thought of Mrs. Graham and picked up the
phone, pulling up her details from the
system. I dialed a number and waited for
the tone to connect.
Hello, Mrs. Graham. It's David from the
surgery. Just a quick call about your
recent filling. Nothing to worry about,
but we've started running a new patient
care initiative that involves follow-up
routines for anyone who's had recent
work. Just making sure everything's
settling properly.
Oh," she said, sounding a little
apprehensive.
"No charge, of course. We're just trying
to catch any small issues early before
they turn into anything bigger."
"That's thoughtful of you. I was
actually going to ring. It's been
feeling a bit odd since I left.
I'd like to have another look if that's
all right. Could you come in later
today? We've got a slot open this
afternoon."
Yes, that's fine. Better to get it
checked, isn't it?
Exactly. We'll see you then.
Mrs. Graeme arrived later that
afternoon, right on time. We exchanged
the usual small talk while I settled her
into the chair. Nothing out of the
ordinary on the surface.
"Doesn't quite feel right, that one,"
she said as I adjusted the light. That's
what we're here to check, I said, giving
her the practiced, reassuring smile.
I called Kelly in from sterilization.
She slipped on gloves without question
and took up a place at my side.
Composite failing again, she asked under
her breath. "No, just the followup," I
said.
I numbed the area, waited until I was
certain Mrs. Graeme couldn't feel a
thing.
Then I worked carefully, easing through
the surface of the filling. It crumbled
under the burr in soft, unexpected
flakes.
Beneath it, the dentin looked pale,
almost porous, hollow in places.
Kelly shifted beside me, leaning in to
watch.
"Looks the same as Collins," she said,
keeping her voice level.
I irrigated the cavity as she suctioned
clear the debris.
As I leaned closer with a mirror,
something small and pale.
It was moving.
Kelly, I said quietly, pass me the
explorer.
She did without comment, though I felt a
breath hitch as she saw it too.
I nudged the lava free.
It was tiny, embedded right where the
pulp should have been.
Kelly's widened eyes flicked between me
and the thing writhing faintly on the
tip of my tool.
She kept her composure barely.
Mrs. Graeme still had her eyes closed
blissfully unaware.
Get the container, I said steady as I
could manage. Now
I've never seen anything like that. she
whispered as she passed it over.
"Neither have I," I said, placing the
lava inside with careful precision,
snapping the lid shut before I could
shift again. We both sat there for a
moment longer than necessary, watching
it curl and flex against the plastic.
Kelly's gloves creaked faintly as she
tightened the grip on the edge of the
tray, as if bracing herself against the
reality of what we just found.
My tongue pressed instinctively against
my own mer. I felt it again. That faint
shift beneath the enamel. The
realization settled hard in my chest.
Collins, the little girl, Mrs. Graham,
Clare, me.
I swallowed hard, tasting the metallic
tang of fear crawling up from the back
of my throat. Kelly remained speechless,
ignorant to the real reason the lava was
there.
I need you to head over to Mens's, I
said quietly, leaning in close enough
that Mrs. Graeme wouldn't overhear.
See if they'll sell you a filling pack.
Say it's for a rush case. Do whatever
you have to.
Kelly blinked at me, confused.
We've got more in the vault. Plenty. I
don't want what's in the vault, I said.
Just trust me on this. Go beg if needed.
Mrs. Graeme shifted slightly in the
chair, but kept her eyes closed, still
numb, still unaware.
Kelly hesitated, then gave a single nod,
stripping off her gloves as she left.
She returned 5 minutes later with a
fresh kitten hand, looking relieved and
a little flushed.
They didn't ask questions, just happy to
take the money, she said. Didn't even
check what I needed it for. Good, I
said. Let's get it patched up.
We worked quickly and cleanly with the
new materials. The tooth was lined,
filled, and polished to a shine.
Mrs. Graham sat up, feeling better than
she had when she walked in, and thanked
us both politely.
feels loads better already. She said it
was worth coming back in.
I smiled and sent her on away.
When the door shut behind her, Kelly
turned back to me.
"All right," she said. "What the hell is
going on?"
I opened my mouth to answer, but I
struggled to find where to start.
It was in that moment that I felt a snap
in my mouth. It was sharp and sudden,
like a tooth was splintering.
Kelly's expression shifted from
confusion to horror as I lurched forward
over the tray. My hand clamped to my jaw
like I could hold it in place. Stop it
somehow. "Open your mouth," Kelly
demanded.
I obeyed, prying my jaw apart through
the pain.
Kelly angled the light, leaned in
closer, and then recoiled momentarily.
Her breath hitched sharply, gloves
trembling as she adjusted the mirror.
"Oh my god," she said, not calm anymore.
"It's moving. I can see it. It's chewed
through. It's bigger."
I let out a horrified groan, jaw
straining open while her hands were
still in there. I couldn't speak. All I
could do was make that awful sound as
the pain sharpened.
Hold still, she snapped.
I felt a noring scrape inside the tooth,
the way the enamel fractured inward as
something forced its way out. The pain
ballooned hoten roar beneath the gum.
Before I could brace for it, I felt it
push a crack as it forced its way out
through the enamel.
Pain blared sharply and deep through my
jaw, worse than any abscess I'd ever
treated.
Kelly grabbed the explorer and without
waiting for me to flinch, hooked it in
and pulled. I felt the pressure ease in
a rush of warmth and blood. Something
white, wet, and writhing slipped free
into the tray with a soft, awful sound.
We both stared at it. It was another
lava, bigger this time, slick with blood
and pulp.
Kelly looked at me wideeyed, her face
blanching beneath the harsh surgery
light.
"Jez!
Oh god, she said, breath catching
sharply. What the hell have we been
putting into people's mouths?
I couldn't answer. I turned away, half
stumbling to the sink and threw up.
When I finally came back for air, Kelly
was still staring at the tray, pale and
silent. I wiped my mouth, my hands
shaking, and crossed back to the
computer.
I bulled up the website where I had
placed the order. Refresh. Refresh
again.
Nothing. Error screen. Page not found. I
checked the invoice and grabbed the box
from the bin. Her phone number was
printed in small, pale type beneath the
logo. I dialed it. The line rang once,
twice, then a dull automated voice cut
through.
The number you have dialed has not been
recognized. Please check and try again.
I tried twice more. Same message, same
dead tone.
I sat back, staring at the box, the
screen, the number, as if something
would change if I looked long enough.
There was no trail left to follow. How
did they even get listed? How did they
pass themselves off as legitimate?
The package had looked cheap, yes, but
not dangerous. There had been no
warnings, no red flags, no reason to
question it beyond the usual distrust
that came with buying cheap. They sent
extras. They'd been polite, efficient,
and now
nothing.
Half the world away, using the same kit
I'd sent, Cla's jaw hurt with one of
those things inside of her teeth eating
away at the enamel from the inside out.
I pressed my fingers hard against my
temples and felt the pulse through my
jaw.
And in that moment,
I felt utterly helpless.
It's not glamorous work, but it pays
well and offers opportunities for
overtime.
After the divorce and the foreclosure,
after most of my friends stopped
calling, county maintenance was steady
enough, quiet, predictable, and away
from the noise from my life I was trying
to avoid.
I was assigned a new job to do. Take the
truck, follow the checklist, tear down
the old signs, log the trails as
cleared, move on.
I was sitting in the diner the morning
before the job started, staring into a
mug of burnt coffee, pretending not to
hear the old men at the corner table
watching me. One of them finally spoke
up.
Some trails don't want to be forgotten.
The others gave a chuckle at that. Half
serious, half sarcastic,
small town men with too many years
behind them, too familiar with bad
stories, too many bad stories told over
whiskey and boredom.
I gave them the polite nod you learn to
use when you're too tired to argue.
They're just signs, I said. Just trees.
They didn't argue. They just kept
watching me finish my coffee.
Truth was, this route landed on my lap
because nobody else wanted it. Not the
younger guys, not the retirees pulling
half shifts to pad their pensions.
Even my supervisor didn't look me in the
eye when he gave me the paperwork.
Lot of bad breakouts there, he said. Be
careful where you step.
I figured it was the usual small town
superstition.
Faded trail markers nailed to rotting
trees weren't going to bite me.
Bureaucracy doesn't scare me. Not
usually.
The first few trails went by without
much to say for themselves. Nothing
unusual beyond how quiet everything
felt. No birds, no squirrels, not even
the hum of flies over Deadfall.
Just me and the trees. The kind of
silence you feel in your teeth.
The work itself stayed simple. Hike in,
find the markers, pull them down, log
the removal, move on.
Every sign had a name on it, stamped in
wood, and weather worn to hell. Some of
them I recognized from old missing
person's flyers, faces that used to hang
by the register and gas stations when I
was a kid. memorials to those lost and
never found. Others dated further back
than that. Names passed down through
town gossip, usually mentioned in the
same breath as bad luck or sad endings.
It struck me more than once how strange
it was to name trails after people who'd
gone missing on them. Stranger still,
how nobody ever bothered to mention that
part when handing me the job sheet.
After a few days, things started not
lining up. I'd clear a path in the
morning, haul the markers out, only to
find some of them back up by the
afternoon. Same trees, same bolts sunk
into bark that should have been bare.
Then there were the footprints, too
narrow for my boots, moving across the
paths in places where no one should have
been walking.
They never led anywhere, just stopped
dead in the middle of thick brush or
vanished outright on solid ground.
The radio gave me more static the deeper
I went. Voices sometimes faint and
broken beneath the white noise.
I couldn't make out much at first, but
after a while it got clearer.
Stop. Turn back. Leave it alone.
Always urgent. always on the edge of
words.
I told myself it had to be locals
playing games, teens tapping into my
radio frequency. Maybe those old boys at
the diner still had enough spite in them
to plant a CB somewhere and mess with
me.
I thought about packing up early, taking
the right up, losing the overtime,
but rent was due, bills were stacked,
and I couldn't stomach screwing up
another job.
So I stayed, set up camp right in the
thick of it to finish quicker.
One more night, then I tear down the
last of it and never look back.
Even as I hammered in the last stake and
zip my tent shut beneath those dead
trees,
I couldn't shake the feeling. I should
have left already.
That night, the woods didn't pretend to
sleep. I heard movement outside the tent
long before I unzipped it. Not footsteps
exactly, not anything that steady.
Branches snapped, leaves shifted, and
something mimicked the short clipped
beeps of my radio.
Not words, just noise, chopped and
mechanical, trying to get the rhythm
right without understanding the purpose
behind it.
I sat in the dark, listening, waiting
for it to stop.
When it didn't, I stepped out with my
flashlight and swept the trees beyond
the camp.
For a second, I thought I saw a figure.
It was tall, bigger than anyone living
ought to be, standing too still between
the trunks.
My light didn't catch it properly, and
when I blinked,
it was gone.
I told myself it had been a tree, a
shadow, or a grazing animal I had
spooked away.
When I tried the radio again, the static
gave way to words, not sentences,
nothing conversational,
just names. Names of trails I hadn't
reached yet. Names pulled straight from
my paperwork.
Some I didn't even recognize.
I didn't sleep after that.
By morning, every marker I had pulled
the day before had been reinstalled.
Not where I'd found them originally, but
deeper into the woods. Trees I hadn't
walked past yet. Some even looked
freshly mounted. Bolts driven into the
bark that wept clean sap beneath them.
I packed up camp and made for the truck,
ready to leave this evolving nightmare
behind.
only to find it wasn't where I left it.
The tire tracks stretched off into the
brush and vanished without a sign of
turning around.
I stood there for a long while fighting
the urge to just walk back to town and
leave it all behind.
But the job was halfway done. Rent
wasn't going to pay itself, and I
couldn't stomach another mistake on my
record.
I just needed to finish off the last of
my assigned route.
So, I kept going. I was going to finish
clearing these trails.
Nothing in those woods connected the way
it should. Paths I knew for a fact ran
east to west, began curving in on
themselves, leading me back to places I
hadn't passed twice. I checked my
compass until the needle spun in slow,
lazy circles, no matter which way I
turned. The GPS on my phone glitched
between error screens and coordinates
that made no sense.
I started leaving fresh markers behind
me, bright tape, scratches in the bark,
small cans of stone.
Every time I circled back, they were
gone. The discarded pile of signs I
created to dispose of later that morning
vanished, too. I kept walking until the
trees opened into a clearing I didn't
remember from any map. At its center
stood a structure, not natural, not
accidental.
A totem of old signs, rusted and rotted,
deliberately bolted together in twisting
layers. Beneath the plaques hung scraps
of fabric, torn backpacks, and empty
shoes. Bones wedged, between them
yellowed thin with age. I recognized a
few of the names on those signs from the
markers I pulled, names from my
paperwork, names from missing person's
cases decades old. The trees around the
clearing weren't untouched either. Deep
grooves cut into the bark, long slashes
that pulled at the wood in crude shapes.
At first they looked random, but the
longer I stared, the more they resembled
the clean square fonts used on county
trail markers. Letters halfformed
sentences left unfinished.
This wasn't some prank. This wasn't
locals trying to scare me off or some
bitter old men with a CB radio in the
woods. The trails weren't just
abandoned. They weren't meant to be
touched.
The woods were watching
or worse,
waiting.
I tried to backtrack. I tried to follow
the map, my own markers, even the sun.
None of it lined up anymore.
In the end, I went back to the clearing,
back to the totem.
I thought if I burned it, maybe it would
break whatever was holding me here.
Maybe fire would undo it, strip it down
to something human again.
The flames caught easily enough, but
they burned blue green at the edges,
curling smoke up in heavy spirals that
didn't rise, but hung low and thick over
the ground.
That was when the woods reacted.
The wind roared through the trees in
sharp bursts, pulling at the branches
until they bowed and twisted. The ground
trembled beneath my feet. I heard
something creek in the dark beyond the
clearing. Timber straining. Metal
grinding against itself.
The totem didn't burn. Not really. The
signs blackened, peeled, fell apart,
only to pull themselves together again.
Bent metal reformed, plaques twisting
into new shapes, names rearranging
themselves into words I couldn't read.
The whole thing shifted taller now,
branches splitting off its core like
limbs.
Something stepped free of it.
I couldn't tell where the structure
ended. And the thing began. Wood for
bones, rusted signs for skin, nailed
plaques overlapping like scales, limbs
too long, torso hollowed out, a shape
made of all the pieces I thought I had
removed. Signs hung from its body
clattering against each other with every
slow, deliberate movement, words I
recognized, names I had touched, dates I
had logged.
It didn't speak. It didn't need to. The
weight of its gaze pressed into me,
pulling something loose behind my eyes.
Branches scraping against one another
until they sounded almost like laughter,
dry and joyless.
I turned to run, but there was nowhere
left to go. Paths folded in on
themselves. Roots broke through the dirt
and coils thick enough to trip me no
matter which way I turned. Daylight
snapped to dusk without warning. Shadows
stretching long and thin until they
swallowed the edges of the clearing.
The thing watched me until I couldn't
hold onto the moment any longer.
The ground tilted. The air split
sideways. My thoughts scattered into
static.
I blacked out standing right where it
wanted me.
I woke up lying in the dirt, but it
wasn't the same dirt I'd blacked out on.
The ground beneath me was clean, the
trail well-maintained.
Fresh gravel crunched under my hands
when I pushed myself upright.
The trees weren't dead and twisting
anymore. They stood tall and green,
leaves shifting gently in a breeze that
actually smelled right. I could hear
birds again, wind in the branches.
For a moment, I let myself believe I'd
made it out. Maybe I'd wandered too far,
passed out, and someone had dragged me
back to a safe route.
But my truck was gone. No sign of my
tent, my tools, the clearing, or twisted
thing I'd seen pull itself together from
bones and metal.
I turned in a slow circle, trying to
find any marker to orient myself.
Nothing,
only a trail running ahead and behind,
so neat and oddly it might have been
laid down yesterday.
I followed it backward, hoping it might
lead to a road.
Instead, it brought me to a sign, new,
freshly bolted, standing proud of the
trail head.
The words didn't make sense until I read
them twice.
It was a new trail, one I hadn't seen
when I took inventory of the listed
trails for the area,
named after me.
The established date was the day I had
blacked out.
There was no way someone could have made
a whole trail in that shorter time. It
would have taken a whole team weeks.
Yet, here it was, freshly laid and ready
for use.
I stood there staring until my throat
closed up. The font matched every sign
I'd removed over the past week. Same
materials, same bolts. Even the angle of
the placement was the same as the ones
I'd pulled down with my own hands.
I remembered clear as daylight how every
one of those old trails bore the name of
a missing person. Names I thought were
just bureaucratic leftovers from decades
past. Memorials to those lost to nature.
Forgotten names I thought I was helping
erase.
But I wasn't clearing them. I was making
room.
This was how new trails got built. Not
laid by county workers, not signed off
with permits or blueprints.
People didn't vanish here.
They got repurposed.
I kept walking because I didn't know
what else to do. The trail stretched
ahead, perfect and clean beneath my
feet. No rot, no traps, no wrong turns,
just a neat little path inviting people
in.
Up ahead, I saw them. Hikers, three of
them, maybe four, bright jackets,
backpacks, chatting as they made their
way down the trail like nothing was
wrong. laughing, relaxed, without a clue
what waited further in. I shouted for
them to stop. I waved my arms, stepped
into their path, anything to get their
attention.
They didn't react. They didn't even
glance up.
I screamed at them, begged them to turn
around, told them they had no idea what
they were walking toward, that this
trail wasn't meant to exist, that it
would swallow them like it swallowed me.
They walked through me. Not around, not
past.
Through.
Cold sliced through my ribs and chest. A
chill deeper than winter, leaving
nothing behind but air.
They didn't hesitate, didn't seem to
notice at all.
I chased after them, still shouting,
still trying to get between them and the
woods ahead.
No matter what I did, they didn't hear.
My words didn't touch them. My hands
couldn't stop them.
I stepped off the trail, hoping maybe
that would break whatever held me here.
The world twisted. Trees folded inward.
colors drained to ash and bone.
I blinked and found myself back on the
path where I had started.
I tried again. Same result every time.
The trail wouldn't let me leave.
I could only watch as the hikers moved
ahead until they left the confines of
where my limits were, unaware that
deeper in something was possibly waiting
to fold them into the earth the same way
it folded me.
I wanted to follow them, make sure they
were safe, but I couldn't even touch
them.
All I could do was watch. helpless,
voiceless, bound to this path.
Time stopped making sense after a while.
I didn't eat. I didn't sleep. I didn't
even get tired. My body didn't ache. My
feet never blistered. But I couldn't
leave the trail. I tried every
direction, every hour of what I could
only guess was passing time.
Off the trail, the world broke apart and
threw me back onto the gravel.
I couldn't rest. I just walked back and
forth from the trail head bearing my
name to the furthest point before the
woods bent the world in half again. Back
and forth forever.
People came. Not often, but enough.
hikers and pairs or groups wandering in
without a clue, following my name
printed on that clean, fresh sign.
I followed them at a distance, watched
them finish the path, heard them laugh
about the beautiful scenery, the quiet
woods.
They always made it through, at least
the ones I saw. They always left. I
couldn't follow beyond the trail head.
I wanted to think I was watching over
them. Some part of me still wanted to
protect someone from this place. I told
myself, "Maybe that mattered. Maybe I
still mattered."
Then
came the ranger,
a county man, clipboard in hand,
maintenance vest, same patch on his
sleeve I used to wear, same paperwork I
filled out, the checklist, the
inventory.
same job.
He stood beneath my sign for a long
time, scowlling at it. Eventually, he
pulled out a crowbar and started prying
it loose.
I wanted to scream at him to stop, to
leave it, to get back in his truck and
drive until he couldn't see trees
anymore.
I followed him as he walked down the
trail, dragging the sign under one arm.
I screamed as loud as I could, then
pushed harder to try get through to him.
Nothing happened until his radio
crackled at his hip.
My voice came through it, warped and
broken, barely words at all. A handful
of syllables, a warning he couldn't
hear. Or maybe he could, and simply
dismissed it as the locals driving him
away.
Ahead of him between the trees,
I saw it. The thing from the clearing,
the shape stitched together from rusted
signs and bones from wood and stolen
names.
It moved ahead of him, slow but certain,
always just out of sight.
It wasn't chasing him. It didn't have
to.
It was leading him somewhere.
He didn't see it. He wouldn't have
believed it if he did. He followed his
paperwork, his duty, not knowing what
was waiting for him now that he had
disturbed the trail.
They stepped off the trail together into
the woods beyond where I could go.
I stood there watching the space where
they vanished, listening to the empty
woods breathe.
The sign would come back, I knew. New
name, new date, new path carved deeper.
Another piece added to the forest's
collection. Another mile for hikers to
follow.
Another man swallowed up.
And I couldn't do a damn thing
to stop it.
[Music]
People always imagine surveyors working
in the mountains are along beautiful
stretches of coastline standing noly
against the horizon with a tripod and
scope.
The truth is most of the time we're
standing alone in a field that doesn't
deserve anyone's attention.
empty, sunbleleached, littered with
scrap metal or half- deadad hedros
choking in plastic bags. Places waiting
to become something else.
That morning was no different. A wide,
flat stretch of land on the outskirts of
a dead-end town. The kind of site where
the council had already approved
development before anyone bothered
sending me to check for subservice
problems.
You'd think if they were serious about
health and safety, they'd prioritize
this step earlier. But half my work
comes down to ticking boxes after
decisions have been made.
I parked my truck on the edge of the
field, grabbed my gear, and hiked out
into the waist high grass with my boots
soaking up yesterday's rain. Usual
checklist. boundary confirmation, soil
composition, utilities, elevation
consistency.
My kit was standard. A total station for
accuracy, a handheld GNSS receiver, and
the ground penetrating radar to check
beneath the surface.
Expensive tools treated better than my
own health.
I locked everything methodically.
That's how I worked. I follow process,
keep my paperwork tight, never cut
corners, even when I know it won't
matter to anyone but me.
The first couple of hours passed like
they always did, slow, methodical,
solitary.
I made my passes, marking coordinates,
noting anomalies.
There were a few small inconsistencies
right off. My compass readings jittered
by a few degrees more than they should
have. And the GNSS had a tendency to
flicker, struggling to keep a solid fix
on satellite locks.
That happens sometimes near old landfill
sites or when there's a high iron
content in the soil, though the maps
didn't show anything to suggest it here.
Still, it bothered me. I hate noise in
my data. It nags at me. Some surveyors
fudge through and write it off as margin
of error.
I'm not wired like that. I don't like
unresolved questions sitting in my
reports.
I made another loop around the
perimeter, double-checking points I'd
already marked.
That's when I noticed it. Something
ahead near the center of the field.
Something tall enough to break through
the monotony of the grass. something
that hadn't been there when I walked
this stretch an hour ago.
At first glance, it appeared to be
utility infrastructure, possibly a
temporary rig for which paperwork had
been forgotten.
I moved closer, but my chest tightened
with a low, creeping sense that this
wasn't right.
It wasn't a cabinet or a drill rig or
any kind of construction I'd seen
before.
It was an elevator,
freestanding, about 8 ft tall, twin
doors, a control panel fixed beside them
with a single backlit button glowing
steady green. No markings, no company
logos, no rust or grime. It looked brand
new, modern, powered.
I walked a slow circle around it, half
expecting to find scaffolding or a
generator or even loose cables snaking
out of the grass.
Nothing.
The thing was planted into the earth,
rooted like a permanent structure, but
the ground it was undisturbed.
No tire tracks, no footprints except my
own. No sign of heavy equipment having
moved through.
If something had planted this here, they
done it without disturbing a single inch
of soil.
And that was impossible.
Things don't just appear fully installed
without a trace. That wasn't possible.
I pulled out my phone, flipped through
the site reports again just to be sure.
Nothing listed.
No prior development, no underground
facilities, nothing built or planned
until this survey was complete. The last
formal record of this land showed
farmland subdivided and sold off decades
ago before elevators like this even
existed.
Still,
there it was.
I circled the elevator slowly, taking it
in from every angle.
Up close, it looked even stranger than
it had from a distance. The surface was
brush steel, like the kind you'd expect
to see in an old office block or
hospital, clean enough to show a dull
reflection of my boots in the lower
panels.
No signs of age or weather damage,
despite the rain that had come the day
before.
The seams between the doors were sharp
and precise. The button panel beside it
hummed with quiet power. A single green
light steady beside the down arrow.
There wasn't a scratch on it.
It made no sense.
Modern elevator systems require power,
maintenance shafts, connection to
something.
Yet here it was, humming quietly in the
middle of nowhere.
The more I thought about it, the more I
convinced myself there had to be a
reason. Maybe someone had started a
legal development without permits. Maybe
there was a corporate project buried
beneath me, one they'd gone to a lot of
trouble to hide. If so, my job wasn't
just to take soil samples and boundary
readings anymore.
Part of surveying is reporting
anomalies. Unauthorized construction had
to be documented.
That thought settled the debate for me.
Curiosity played its part, sure, but
this wasn't about curiosity anymore.
This was about liability, about making
sure that people who came after me
didn't stumble into something dangerous
because I hadn't done my due diligence.
I stepped up to the doors and rested my
finger on the call button again.
I pressed it.
I don't really know what I expected to
happen when I pressed the button. Maybe
nothing. Maybe for the light to flicker
out and remind me that what I was
looking at couldn't possibly be real.
What I didn't expect was for the
elevator to answer.
With a low hum and a faint tremor
beneath my boots, the machinery kicked
into life.
Somewhere below, cables tightened, gears
turned, and the elevator roast smooth
into place.
The doors opened without hesitation,
revealing a clean, empty car waiting for
me.
The interior smelled faintly metallic,
the sterile scent of something
mechanical and unused.
I stepped forward just far enough to
study the panel inside.
The floor selection was simple. Ground
level marked as G. Below that, floors
labeled minus1 through minus 7. Only the
first basement level was lit. The button
glowed steadily and paly, inviting me
down.
For a moment, I stood there weighing it
in my mind.
This wasn't standard procedure. No one
would expect me to step into an elevator
in the middle of a field, and no one
would question me if I flagged it in the
report and walked away.
What if there was something down there?
some illegal structure, a liability
hidden beneath the earth. Unauthorized
builds aren't exactly well known for
their amazing structural integrity.
If I left it unchecked and something
happened later, it would come back on
me.
Part of this job is making sure the
ground is safe before others build on
it. That responsibility doesn't just
stop because something feels wrong.
One floor.
That was all. I could take a quick look
and confirm it was an old maintenance
space or something more recent. Just one
level to investigate. Standard due
diligence.
I stepped inside, pressed the button for
minus one, and felt the car lurch gently
as it began to sink into the earth.
The car jittered as it reached his stop.
The door slid open and for a moment I
thought I stepped into a time capsule.
The floor stretched out ahead in grim
flickering light lined with sagging
cubicle walls and peeling lenonium
tiles.
Exposed concrete frame the ceiling where
aging fluorescent strips hummed without
pattern casting intermittent shadows
across the space.
It felt abandoned, not ruined, not
collapsed,
just
left, as though everyone had walked out
at once and never returned.
I moved forward cautiously.
The air was thick with the smell of old
coffee and stale paper. My boots echoed
against the floor, drawing attention to
the silence that pressed in from every
side.
A small break room sat off to my left.
His glass panels smeared with grease and
handprints so faded that they looked
fossilized.
Inside, chairs were pulled out as if
waiting for people to return. On one
table sat a styrofoam cup half full. The
coffee inside had grown a film of scum.
The cigarette burned in an ashtray
nearby, smoke still lifting in a lazy
spiral.
I stood there trying to make sense of
what I was seeing.
There was no power to this place, no
feed connected it to the surface grid,
and no generator noise hummed behind the
walls.
My scanner confirmed it. Zero utilities,
zero heat signatures.
And yet, here it was. Lights on, smoke
rising, something half drunk sitting
warm in a cup.
I moved further in, examining a row of
desks. Paperwork littered them, yellowed
with age, but still legible.
Maintenance logs, requisition orders for
supplies, mundane office debris from a
company that didn't exist on any records
I'd been given.
One memo caught my eye more than the
rest. It was stapled to a corkboard in
the corner of the room.
Strict protocol. No unauthorized
personnel permitted below level three
under any circumstances.
Maintenance team reports must be signed
off on prior to departure.
Another sign, more official, more
permanent, showed a cartoon worker in a
hard hat giving a thumbs up under bold
red text. Always follow maintenance
protocols below level three.
I felt the first twist of a knees in my
chest.
This wasn't some abandoned structure
forgotten by paperwork.
This was built deliberately,
organized, planned for depths the
surface had no record of.
I returned to the elevator faster than I
intended. My finger went straight to the
ground floor button.
I pressed it, waited, pressed it again
harder.
The button remained dark beneath my
thumb. No response.
I tried holding it down, willing the
doors to close.
Nothing happened.
I stepped back, heart climbing higher in
my throat.
I wasn't stuck. Not yet. Maybe the
elevator system was wired to operate
sequentially.
That would make sense if this was an old
security protocol, restricting access
one level at a time until clearance was
confirmed.
The only button lit now was for minus
two.
I checked my phone for a dash of hope,
but of course, no signal.
One floor at a time, no other path
forward.
That was the logic I grabbed onto, the
reasoning that kept me from losing my
nerve.
If I wanted to get back to the surface,
I'd have to reach the bottom and hope
the controls reset.
That was how these things worked, wasn't
it? If it wasn't, pretending made it
easier to calm down.
The doors closed without my touch. The
button for minus two glowed steadily and
the elevator began to descend again.
I braced myself.
Whatever was down there,
I'd see it soon enough.
When the doors opened again, I thought
for a moment that the elevator had
broken entirely.
This couldn't be another floor beneath
the corporate basement. This couldn't
belong underground at all.
I stepped out into what looked like a
house. A complete, fully furnished
suburban home, the kind built in the '9s
with wood paneling and patterned
wallpaper that hadn't aged well. A lamp
hum softly in the corner. Yellowed
blinds flitted pale light under carpet
worn down to the threads.
Somewhere a clocked tick steadily.
The air smelled faintly of burnt toast
and old cleaning products. It was the
smell of someone's daily routine, long
since abandoned, but somehow still
hanging on.
I walked forward, drawn through a narrow
hallway into a living room that could
have belonged to any tide suburban
family from 30 years ago. Frame
photographs line the mantle.
I picked one up, turned it toward me.
My breath caught.
It looked like an innane family
portrait, the posing of an idealistic
nuclear family. But the more I stared,
the stranger it got.
I wasn't sure if it started normally or
was shifting so slowly it was
imperceptible,
but the faces held uncanny features.
eyes slightly shifted. Smiles that
didn't hold an ounce of happiness.
All of it culminated in my gut, sinking
each second I studied it.
I put it away, hoping it was a one-off,
and looked through others, hoping one
would hold a clue as to where I was,
but each had the same effect.
My stomach feeling acidic from the
stress.
Nothing bad happened, but my body felt
like it had a neardeath experience
simply from standing in one spot.
I couldn't help but move on.
I checked my phone. No surface, no time
displayed on the log screen. The battery
icon remained frozen at 82%.
For a moment, I stood in the middle of
that room and listened.
Somewhere in the house, water dripped
slowly. A rhythmic patter that echoed
through unseen pipes.
Beyond the windows, nothing but raw
concrete pressed against the glass. No
hint of anything existing beyond the
walls, just blank gray, featureless, and
absolute.
There were no doors leading out, no
stairs going up or down, only hallways
that curved around into the same rooms
again, looping quietly as if this space
existed in fragments, repeating
themselves over and over.
I found myself back where I started
without realizing how I had gotten
there.
The elevator stood open, waiting, its
soft interior light the only thing
breaking the dimness.
The ground floor button still remained
dark.
Only minus three now glowed, as if
daring me to press it.
I hesitated.
Nothing here had threatened me. Nothing
had tried to keep me. Yet the weight of
something unseen pressed deeper into my
chest.
This place wasn't dangerous. Not yet.
But it wasn't meant to be found.
I stepped back inside. The doors closed,
and I felt the drop begin.
The doors opened onto a corridor tiled
in an institutional pale blue, meant to
calm nerves, but rarely succeeding.
The walls were clean in places, peeling
in others. The lights overhead buzzed
inconsistently, casting uneven strips of
cold fluorescent across the floor.
I recognized the smell immediately.
Antiseptic, old metal, something faintly
chemical beneath it all.
A hospital or something built to
resemble one.
I move forward slowly, stepping past
abandoned gurnies and carts of surgical
tools laid out in neat untouched rows.
Through a set of swinging doors,
I found the operating theater.
A large observation window loomed above
it. Glass cracked in several places.
Below the room held the chaos of an
interrupted procedure.
Her body rested on the table beneath a
circle of bright surgical lamps. Blood
crusted the sheets beneath it, though
the edges glistened wet under the harsh
light. Tubes still fed clear liquid
through hanging IV bags, the fluid
running with a slow, steady drip despite
no one watching.
Metal trays held bone saws, scalpels,
and rib spreaders, all laid out with a
precision of professionals who had no
intention of cleaning up after
themselves.
I approached the table. The body was
covered from the neck down. But even
under the sheet, I could see the
wrongness of its shape.
Too thin in some places, too bloated in
others. Limbs bent at angles that didn't
match how bone should move.
Beside the table, a clipboard hung from
a rail. I flipped through the patient
files without thinking, scanning lines
of text my brain struggled to process.
Different dates, different injuries.
Gunshot wounds, blunt force trauma,
surgical extraction, organ failure,
brain death. Some of them couldn't be
possible.
One listed dissection while still alive.
Another marked the procedure as
completed despite a date that hadn't
happened yet.
Something shifted behind the far
curtain.
I froze.
The movement was slow, steady. A shadow
pressed against the fabric, a shape too
tall to be human, too thin to belong in
this world.
The curtain rippled as it moved behind
it, tracing a careful, deliberate path
along the wall.
The surgical lamps flickered overhead.
One by one, they blinked out, plunging
parts of the room into uneven darkness.
Footsteps echoed across the tile, soft
at first, then louder, coming from more
than one direction.
I couldn't see anything in the corners
of the room where the light had died,
but I could hear breath rasping from
somewhere close, heavy and wet.
I didn't wait to see what would step
through the curtain. I backed toward the
elevator, my hands shaking as I reached
for the button.
The doors opened faster than I expected.
I stepped inside and slammed my palm
against the panel.
Only minus 4 was lit now. The doors
closed before the footsteps could reach
me, and I felt the car sink lower into
the earth.
Out of habit, I reviewed what had just
happened.
Each floor before had been empty.
Unsettling, but empty.
I had grown complacent that this strange
structure were just glimpses into a
maddened mind that nothing would
manifest.
But I was proven wrong
and I feared what the rest of the floors
held.
When the doors open again, the smell hit
me first.
stagnant water mixed with mildew and
something acred beneath it all. The
light overhead flickered weakly,
revealing tiled floors that were lost
beneath a layer of black water which
rippled with slow unnatural motion.
I wanted to just stay in the elevator
car and wait for the next button to
light up. But no matter how long I stood
there, frozen by mental exhaustion,
none of the buttons lit up.
I was forced to move forward.
I stepped out and felt the chill soak
through my boots. The water reached my
calves, thick and oily enough to leave a
sheen on my skin.
I stood in what once had been a shopping
mall. Storefronts lined the wide
corridor. The neon signs burned out or
replaced with names that made my head
ache to read.
Clothing displays featured rows of
shirts and jackets I recognized from my
own closet, but the cuts were off and
the colors bled together where the seams
met.
Every logo looked almost correct, but
shifted when I tried to focus on the
details.
Mannequins filled the stores and
hallways, half submerged, their blank
faces aimed toward the water's surface.
Some bobble gently as if breathing
beneath the black depths, though it
could have just been the eb and flow of
the water.
Others leaned against the glass walls,
hands pressed flat as if trying to force
their way out.
I moved carefully between them, watching
their stillness for any sign of change.
One blinked as I passed. Another turned
its head just enough for me to catch the
movement from the corner of my eye.
The light above hummed louder, casting
the water in a dull, sickly glow.
As I glanced down, my reflection stared
back.
not just stared,
moved.
It looked like a second version of me
beneath the water, watching with calm
indifference.
When I stepped forward, it stayed still
until it shifted fast through the water,
no longer overlapping with my
reflection. An off-white blur moving
through the water.
Another mannequin.
The water never settled from when it
moved. Something was happening. The
water began to rise.
I could feel the pull against my legs,
dragging me down inch by inch. Shelves
and signage shifted with groaning
protests, sucked towards some unseen
drain beneath the floor.
Beneath the noise, something moved
faster now, circling me, unseen, but
close enough to disturb the mannequins
as it passed. They bobbed in its wake,
heads dipping below the surface one by
one.
I turned toward the elevator, forcing
myself through the thickened current.
The water clawed on my legs. Every step
felt heavier than the last. The
mannequin that had blinked now floated
face down in front of me, blocking my
path. I shoved past it without looking
back.
The elevator waited, doors open, light
spilling under the water's black
surface.
I pushed forward with everything I had
left.
Something brushed against my ankle.
I didn't look down.
I threw myself into the elevator just as
the water surged higher, slapping
against the threshold with enough force
to splash across the floor. My hand hit
the panel in blind desperation, fingers
smearing wet across the buttons until
one responded beneath my palm.
I didn't even see which one it was until
the doors grown shut, sealing the dark
water outside with a hollow metallic
thud.
Something heavy struck the doors from
the other side. Not fists, not hands,
something deeper, something slower.
The whole car trembled beneath the
impact.
I pressed my back into the corner as the
water drained from the elevator car,
chest heaving, soaked through and
shivering.
My eyes found the panel on instinct.
Minus 6 was lit now, steady and silent,
waiting to take me further down.
I felt my stomach twist.
For a few seconds, I thought about the
situation I was in.
Each time moving on threw me into more
peril, but staying was a death sentence.
It felt like a choice of a fast death or
a death of a thousand cuts.
Each descent was closer to whatever
waited at the bottom.
But there wasn't a choice. The ground
floor wasn't coming back. This elevator
only moved in one direction.
The elevator opened into darkness. Not
the kind of shadow that comes from a
power outage, but real endless black
stretching high above a canopy of silent
trees.
It wasn't a room. It wasn't even an
illusion of a room.
It was a forest.
The air was cold, damp with pine and
rot. Dirt crunched underfoot. Damp
leaves clung to my boots.
A full forest planted beneath the earth.
No walls, no horizon, no stars.
I stepped out slowly, flashlights
sweeping across tangled branches and
leaning trunks. The beam felt thinner
than before, weaker. The darkness
swallowed everything beyond a few steps
ahead.
I knew this place.
Not exactly. Not the details, but the
shape of it. The way the trees leaned in
too close. The way the trails led
nowhere or looped.
I dreamed this place as a kid over and
over again.
Always this forest, always this sky,
pitch black with no stars.
Something had pulled it from the back of
my mind and made it real.
Somewhere far off, I heard something
move. Not a loud crash, just the soft
drag of something tall rushing through
the undergrowth.
I didn't call out, didn't even whisper.
I just moved forward one step at a time
toward a trail barely wide enough for me
to pass.
Branches clawed at my arms and face. No
wind, no birds, just that steady,
distant shifting, always behind the
trees, always out of sight.
I found signs of others. A half-bied
compass with a casing cracked open. A
metal clipboard snapped in half. A
surveyor's pole leaning against the tree
snapped at the base. A crushed water
bottle still sealed, still full.
Whatever had been here before me hadn't
lasted long.
The path narrowed. The trees got
thicker. My flashlight caught movement
just beyond reach.
Something thin, impossibly tall,
watching, never closer, never
retreating,
always in the corner of my eye.
Then
it moved.
No sound, no warning. It blurred through
the trees, straight toward me.
I ran. Branches whipped to my face.
Roots snagged my ankles.
I didn't care. I sprinted through the
black. Lungs burning. Flashlights swing
wildly.
Then something touched me. Just for a
second, cold fingers brushed the back of
my neck.
I dropped the flashlight, dove forward,
and rolled into a clearing. No trees, no
walls, just a pair of metal elevator
doors standing upright in the dirt with
no shaft, no structure to hold them.
They opened.
I didn't think. I didn't look back. I
ran through them and hid the panel.
As the doors began to close, I saw it
again. A figure impossibly tall, almost
human, but stretched wrong, watching
from the treeine.
Then the door sealed, and the button for
minus 7 lit up.
I leaned back, trying to catch my
breath.
My neck still burned where it had
touched me. Not a cut, not a bruise, but
something had left a part of itself
there.
And I was taking it with me
to the final floor.
The descent minus 7 felt longer than the
others. The elevator groaned through the
shaft. each passing second stretching my
nerves tighter.
I closed my eyes trying to control my
breathing.
It wasn't working.
My heart hammered against my ribs like
it wanted out. Like it already knew I
wasn't making it back to the surface.
I couldn't shake the thought that I had
already passed the point where people
stop escaping places like this. Whatever
rules I thought I understood when I
stepped into the elevator didn't matter
anymore.
Each floor hadn't just been stranger
than the last. They'd been an escalating
threat.
By the time the doors opened again,
I was prepared to see hell itself
waiting.
What greeted me instead
was silence.
silence wrapped in dust and concrete.
I didn't step far from the elevator at
first. My instinct told me to turn
around, press whatever button would
bring me back up, and never come down
again.
I hadn't trusted this place from the
start, but now it felt worse than a
mistake. It felt final.
I turned back and pressed the ground
level button.
Nothing happened.
I hit it again, this time harder. I
jabbed every button on the panel one
after the other. If I couldn't get back
to the surface, I felt the other floors
would be safer than this one. Any of
them.
G stayed dark. The numbers below minus
one gave no reaction at all. Only minus
7 g glowed steady and silent.
I waited, hoping the doors might shut on
their own, that the car might pull me
out of here without asking permission.
The doors stayed open. The lights inside
the car flickered once, then dimmed.
I stepped back, breathing hard. My
throat felt tight, as if the air down
here had thickened the longer I stood in
it.
I knew without needing to say it out
loud that this elevator wasn't going to
take me anywhere.
Not anymore. Not until it wanted to.
If I wanted to leave, I wasn't going
back the way I came.
That thought crawled under my skin and
settled in the pit of my stomach.
My only way forward meant stepping
deeper into the floor that would surely
kill me.
into whatever waited.
I stepped out into a vast cavern of
unfinished construction. Poured concrete
stretched in every direction, cracked
and splined where support beams stood
half embedded into the ceiling.
Scaffolding loomed in twisted sections.
Some bolted upright, others collapsed in
tangled heaps. Tower lights stood in
clusters, but none of them worked. Pale
bulbs hung dead and cold.
The only illumination came from the
elevator itself and a few scattered work
lamps running on a circuit I couldn't
see.
My boots crunched across grit and broken
tile. Tools lay abandoned across the
floor. No brands, no markings, just
shapes worn smooth from use. A
sledgehammer, bolt cutters, coils of
wire. None of it belonged to any company
I'd ever heard of.
Blueprints lit a drafting table near the
center of the space, pinned beneath
rusted clamps.
I glanced down and felt my stomach turn.
The designs weren't possible.
Stairwells that curved into themselves,
doors without hinges, rooms connected in
ways geometry shouldn't allow.
One diagram showed a space labeled
habitation unit, but there were no
entrances drawn, no exits either.
Another detail called the observation
chamber, stage three, where dozens of
small circles crowded the corners, each
labeled as a camera. The space itself
consisted of a single chair bolted to
the center.
I flipped through more pages. The plans
grew worse.
One room bore no markings except the
title scrolled in handwriting that
looked rush.
Your replacement.
Another blueprint detailed a pit
described only as depth unknown, but
showed bones layered through the black
beneath it, spreading outward in
impossible spirals.
My throat tightened. I understood now. I
had been moving towards something by
design, not a mistake, not an accident,
a process.
This wasn't a ruin or a forgotten place.
This was construction in progress,
tailored, evolving, unfinished, only
because whoever built it hadn't yet
decided how to finish me or whoever this
place was designed for.
I moved carefully. Even halfbuilt, this
place wasn't safe. Gaps in the floor
dropped into black voids that seemed to
have no end. Rebar jutted from concrete
at angles sharp enough to impale.
Scaffolding leaned at unstable slants.
One wrong step and I would vanish into
the dark beneath.
More than once, I thought I heard
movement above me, something scraping
across the girders.
I refused to look up.
The sense of being watched grew heavier
with every step. Lights flickered where
none should have worked, illuminating
paths I hadn't seen before, then
vanishing the second I turned away. The
labyrinth rearranged itself. I was sure
of it. Hallways ended where they
shouldn't. Walls appeared where gaps had
been moments earlier.
Through it all, I kept moving.
I had to. Standing still felt worse than
any danger I could see.
I found a service elevator tucked into a
corner where no structure should have
allowed space for it. smaller than the
other, older manual controls behind a
greater door that groaned as I pulled it
open.
One button labeled to surface in worn
metal letters.
For a moment,
I hesitated,
relief wared with dread.
I understood what this place had been
built to become. If it had been
finished, there wouldn't have been a
door waiting for me at all. There would
have been a pit, a chair, a box with my
name on it. And I couldn't help but
wonder if this tiny glimpse of hope was
another test of fail.
But I had no other choice. I pulled the
lever.
The elevator shuddered into motion,
rising with agonizing slowness.
As the construction site fell away
beneath me, I didn't feel safe.
I felt lucky. Luck was thin protection,
but for now,
it would have to be enough.
When the service elevator doors opened,
I stepped out into silence. The air felt
colder than it had when I arrived. The
wind moved through the grass with a soft
rustle, empty of any sound, but nature
and my breathing.
No buildings, no elevator shaft rising
from the dirt. Just the field, empty and
ordinary, stretching out under a sky too
gray to tell time by.
I stood there for a long time, unable to
move. My boots sank slightly into the
soft earth. And I let them I let
everything go slack. My hands, my
thoughts, my fear.
It was drained out of me in waves,
leaving behind a numbness that felt
worse in its own way. The gear I had
carried down was gone. The clipboard I
clutched through every descent hung limp
at my side. My paperwork was still
blank. I could not write down what had
happened because I did not know how to
explain it even to myself.
For a moment, I believed I had imagined
it all. That some exhaustion or sickness
had cracked open a space in my mind and
let this happen inside it. that I'd
never gone down, never found those rooms
waiting beneath me, that I would walk
back to the truck and drive home and
forget.
Then I heard it.
Ding.
The sound cut through the silence, clean
and sharp.
I turned toward where the elevator had
been, expecting to see nothing. A
mechanical groan followed. cable was
pulling tor beneath the soil that showed
no sign of disturbance.
The car I had just emerged from was
slowly descending back down. The sound
of weight moving downward pulled deeper
into something unseen.
For a heartbeat, I told myself it was
automatic. A fail safe returning the car
to its resting point.
But another thought crawled into my
chest and rooted there.
What if something had called it back
down?
And if so,
was it coming back up?
I didn't wait to find out. The spell
broke and my legs moved before my mind
caught up. I walked fast, then faster,
pushing through the grass until I saw my
truck waiting untouched at the edge of
the field. I climbed inside, slammed the
door shut, and gripped the wheel until
my knuckles burned white.
The clipboard lay in the passenger seat,
paperwork blank.
It would stay that way.
I could not explain this. Not to my
boss, not to myself, not to anyone.
Out in the field, the wind kept blowing.
I sat behind the glass, staring at the
empty place where the elevator had been,
waiting for the sound of it returning to
pull me under all over again.
And after a breath,
I left.
[Music]